As Washington pundits watch the carnage in Kiev, images of a rapacious Russian President Vladimir Putin, puppet master of Ukraine and of its president, Viktor Yanukovych, stalk the headlines. Putin, the theory goes, is willing to stoke a civil war in order to keep Ukraine from turning to the West.
America's obsession with Putin, however, does not explain the complex realities fueling the uprising in Ukraine or the uneasy relationship between Putin and Yanukovych. Long before the uprising began, if Yanukovych had carried out real economic and political reform, he would not have been caught between a long-term promise of a closer relationship with Europe and an immediate hand-out from Moscow and with it the Kremlin's demand that he toughen up and put down the opposition's demonstrations. 
But Yanukovych, up for re-election in 2015, was not willing to bite the bullet and carry out the measures the West was demanding.
"Yanukovych has played Putin against Europe and the United States quite masterfully. So there is no love lost between them and no trust there," says Eugene Rumer, who, until this month, served as U.S. national intelligence officer for Russia and Eurasia at the CIA. He's now director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for Peace.
"The quality of the discussion here in Washington has really been appalling," he adds. "A lot more has been said about Russia and Russia's role ... but it ignores the fact that Ukraine has had an independent life for the last 25 years, and this crisis is really a domestic political crisis in Ukraine. Not that the Russians haven't helped, but it is a Ukrainian domestic political crisis."
Putin does have interests in Ukraine: a desire to keep NATO and U.S. military bases out, ties with Ukrainian aircraft and shipbuilding enterprises closely linked with Russia's military-industrial complex, his own Black Sea Fleet, in Ukraine's port of Sevastopol on the Crimean peninsula, as well as ensuring unimpeded transit of natural gas to Europe. 
What's more, Harvard University's Simon Saradzhyan says, Putin and his advisers essentially see Russians, Ukrainians and Belarusians as one people and "therefore, seek to draw Ukraine into Moscow's orbit."
"The size of Ukraine's population and, to a less extent, of its economy  would make it a valuable asset in the Eurasian Union, which Putin is building in the post-Soviet landscape."  
Yanukovych, however, "has never been Russia's man," says Dmitri Trenin, director of the Carnegie Moscow Center. "I think it's a myth. He's been a very difficult partner for Russia, a very unreliable partner, someone who let the Russians down on many occasions. Someone absolutely not to be trusted."
Yanukovych's only goal is to stay in power and to protect his wealth and the wealth of his family, says Trenin. "With Yanukovych vacillating between Russia and Europe and always having his own private interests in mind, it's mind-boggling. So the Russians have long given up on Yanukovych."
Putin's envoy to Kiev refused to sign the latest truce between Yanukovych and the opposition, in which they agreed on early elections and a return to a constitution that would shift more power from the president to the Parliament.
"I think the Kremlin feels cold-shouldered," Trenin says. "I think it feels betrayed by Yanukovych. Betrayed may be too strong a word, but certainly Yanukovych has managed to play the Europeans off the Russians."
Putin is not rubbing his hands in glee at the prospect of an epic battle with the West over Ukraine. In fact, says Carnegie's Andrew Weiss, who worked on policy toward the region in the Clinton and George H.W. Bush administrations, "I think if you're sitting in the Kremlin the prospect of a Yugoslav scenario in Ukraine is quite scary."
"As much as the political narrative in Washington and the West is that Putin, the puppet master, has guided all of this," he says, "I think there's reason to believe that he's more worried and more cautious about how dangerous this is. He's set a policy framework which, obviously, has made the situation worse but at the same time, the really scary stuff that's out there as possibilities, I think, scares the Kremlin no less than it scares Europeans and Americans."
Weiss calls it a "four-way political fiasco" involving the Ukrainians, the Europeans, the Russians and the United States, where "people didn't want to get engaged in the early stages of the conflict and events were quickly hijacked by politicians and self-interested actors on the ground."
The Partnership agreement, in which the European Union offered Ukraine eventual economic and political cooperation, was too long-term to solve Ukraine's immediate financial problems. Russia, angered by the move, stepped in to offer $15 billion. 
In the anti-Putin narrative, that is depicted as "blackmail," but if the Russian President, angered by Yanukovych's deal with the opposition, does not follow through with aid for Ukraine, then the ball will be back in the court of the United States and Europe, "who are not willing to dig deep in their pockets like the Kremlin has," Weiss says.
The Yanukovych government must pay back more than $15 billion in debt payments to creditors over the next two years. And without Russia's money, the U.S. and the EU would be forced to come up with some form of emergency support.
"I don't believe there's any receptivity in Brussels or Washington to do a major financial bailout for the Ukrainian government," Weiss says, "which has a terrible track record on economic reform, a completely unsustainable currency peg, and its long track record of cozy deals for tycoons."
Clan struggles among Ukraine's oligarchs, social and political crisis, regional differences between western and eastern parts of the country -- Ukraine's home-grown problems are deepening, even without meddling by Vladimir Putin. 
"What we see in Ukraine is, unfortunately, in the 20 years of independence, Ukrainian leaders have done little or nothing to create a single Ukrainian nation," says Trenin, "and the divisions within Ukraine have persisted and they have also become much more pronounced in the last few months." 
Keeping Ukraine together is a priority for the Obama administration but, says Trenin, it's also a Russian policy priority. "Despite what you may hear from various Russian figures," he says, "it's very much Mr. Putin's preference, in fact, priority, that Ukraine stays in one piece. Otherwise, a civil war very close to home, next door, essentially, could be too dangerous for Russia itself."  
Russia would fight to protect the ethnic Russian population and Moscow's base in Crimea, says Harvard's Saradzhyna, quoting a senior Russian government official who told the Financial Times, "If Ukraine breaks apart, it will trigger a war. ... They will lose Crimea first (because) we will go in and protect (it), just as we did in Georgia." 
Tenin isn't so sure. "I don't think the Russians are about to invade Crimea," he says. "What I think is more likely is that, in the future, the various regions of Ukraine will present their own claims and may go in different directions on a number of issues. And attempts by Kiev to clamp down on those autonomous or regionalist tendencies could lead to a new spike in tensions in Ukraine."
Yanukovych -- or the leader of a new government -- will have to find a new way to keep the country together. Vladimir Putin will not simply stand by and watch it happen, but he is not the puppet master of Yanukovych -- or of Ukraine. 
The turmoil in Ukraine has swept aside its president, brought about the release a prominent opposition leader and raised fears the country could break apart.
After the bloodshed in the streets of Kiev last week -- the deadliest violence Ukraine has suffered since its independence 22 years ago --  the political twists and turns came thick and fast over the weekend.
As a new week begins, uncertainty has taken a hold in the divided nation as Ukraine tries to reshape its political landscape.
An arrest warrant has been issued for ousted President Viktor Yanukovych over the killings of civilians, a government official said Monday. But officials don't know where he is.
The Parliament voted to oust Yanukovych, a key demand of protesters. It appointed seasoned lawmaker Oleksandr Turchinov as a new speaker who will take on Yanukovych's duties until new elections in May.
Turchinov, a longtime ally of opposition leader Yulia Tymoshenko, has promised a new interim government by Tuesday.
"We have a legitimate source of authority in Kiev, which is the democratically elected Parliament and a democratically, constitutionally elected speaker of parliament, who is acting president," Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski, who helped broker a peace deal between the government and the opposition, said on CNN's Fareed Zakaria GPS.
But Yanukovych claims he's still in charge, saying he was forced to leave Kiev because of a "coup."
"I don't plan to leave the country. I don't plan to resign. I am the legitimate President," he said Saturday in a televised broadcast.
But acting Ukrainian Interior Minister Arsen Avakov said Monday that arrest warrant has been issued for Yanukovych.
"As of this morning, a criminal case on mass killings of civilians has been opened. Yanukovych and several other officials have been placed on the wanted list," Avakov wrote Monday on his Facebook page.
Unclear. He made his TV broadcast from Kharkiv, a pro-Russian stronghold near the border. And he reportedly tried to board a charter plane Saturday night in the eastern city of Donetsk, but was turned away because he didn't have the right papers.
On Sunday, he was staying at his private residence in Balaklava in the southern region of Crimea, Avakov said, adding that Yanukovych is believed to traveling in three vehicles with his chief of staff.
He's definitely not in his lavish presidential compound near Kiev that thousands of Ukrainians have now been able to explore after he fled. People have been roaming around the mansion and its vast grounds, staring at the opulence in which Yanukovych lived, including peacocks, vintage cars and a huge galleon-style riverboat for parties.
His political party appears to have turned against him, saying it blames him for the "robbery and deception" of the nation. It accused Yanukovych of making illegal orders that led to casualties, financial debt and shame in the eyes of the world.
But it's notable that Yanukovych was recently in Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine. It's his traditional support base and a predominantly Russian-speaking region. 
People in the east, the country's industrial heartland, tend to look to Russia as Ukraine's key ally. Many of them are suspicious of the Europe-leaning views of those in western Ukraine, who were at the heart of the protests against Yanukovych that filled central Kiev for months.
The demonstrations began after Yanukovych scrapped a European Union trade deal and turned toward Russia for financial support. 
A lot of people with Russian heritage in eastern Ukraine feel that their cultural identity is under threat with the pro-European side in the ascendancy in Kiev.
"I think that divide goes very, very deep -- it's regional, it's linguistic, it's religious," New York Times columnist Nicholas Kristof, whose father grew up in Ukraine, told CNN's Zakaria.
In many parts of Ukraine, people have toppled statues of former Russian communist leader Vladimir Lenin, a founder of the Soviet Union. The statues are symbols of Russian pride.
In Kharkiv, a tense rift has opened up between those who want to tear down the city's Lenin statue, one of the biggest in the country, and those who want to keep it.
Some analysts say they fear parts of eastern Ukraine could push to break away from a pro-Western government in Kiev in favor of Russia.
The task for Yanukovych's opponents is to chart a course for Ukraine that keeps all sides on board.
Acting President Turchinov said Sunday that Ukraine is ready to talk to Kremlin to try to improve relations, but made clear that Kiev's return to European integration would be a priority.
Russia's ambassador to the United Nations, Vitaly Churkin, condemned what he called Western attempts to influence the outcome of the turmoil in Ukraine.
"Either they don't understand the consequences of what they're doing, or they're engaged in a very provocative game of destabilizing Ukraine and therefore Eastern Europe," he said in a post on his official Twitter account.
The Russian foreign ministry says it has recalled its ambassador from Ukraine to Moscow for consultations, citing "the aggravation of the situation."
Everybody's waiting to see what Russian President Vladimir Putin, a key backer of Yanukovych, does next.
"If you look through Putin's eyes specifically, this is his area of interest," said David Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker and a former foreign correspondent in Moscow. 
Putin, whose country just finished hosting the Winter Olympics in Sochi, won't quietly let Ukraine shift into a Western orbit, Remnick said.
"I think Putin is in a very tough, assertive mode and it has nothing to do with snowboarding, it has to do with his geostrategic, regional interests," he said. "It has to do with differentiating himself from the West, morally as well as politically, and I think he's a very tough figure to deal with now."
National Security Adviser Susan Rice warned that it "would be a grave mistake" if Putin intervened militarily in the crisis.
"The United States is on the side of the Ukrainian people," she said on NBC's "Meet the Press." The people expressed themselves peacefully, she said, and Yanukovych "turned on" the people by using violence against them.
But Washington has a delicate task getting involved in a crisis in an area that Russia sees as its backyard.
On Sunday, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry spoke with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov about Ukraine, expressing support for the results of the Parliament's decisions and asking Russia not to not use military force in the country, according to a senior State Department official.
The State Department has warned U.S. citizens to defer all non-essential travel to Ukraine.
Poland's Sikorski, meanwhile, urged Ukrainian leaders to keep dialogue open with Moscow.
"The new Ukrainian government needs to be in touch, needs to have a conversation with Russia, which is an important neighbor, just like Poland," he said. "Because, apart from anything else, Ukraine needs the lower gas price and doesn't want Russia to play the separatist card."
There are plenty of candidates but no clear favorite yet. Turchinov, who Parliament appointed acting leader, is at the helm until elections on May 25.
"The challenge for the opposition moving forward from here is going to be maintaining unity," said CNN correspondent Phil Black.
Former world champion heavyweight boxer Vitali Klitschko has been the most well-known opposition figure during the crisis. He heads the Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reforms party. There's also Arseniy Yatsenyuk, a former foreign minister.
Former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, considered a hero of a 2004 revolution against Yanukovych, was released Saturday after 2<U+00BD> years behind bars.
She had lost to Yanukovych in elections in 2010. A year later, she was sentenced to seven years in prison after being convicted of abuse of authority over a natural gas deal negotiated with Russia.
After her release, she addressed cheering crowds in Kiev's Independence Square, calling Yanukovych a "terrible dictator."
"There'll be no Ukraine but the Ukraine you want," she said. "And I'm the guarantor of that Ukraine." 
She said Sunday that she doesn't want to be considered for the nomination for prime minister, suggesting she may have her eye on the presidency.
But some observers say the protests in Kiev have fed a desire for a new, untainted generation of leaders to step forward.
"A lot of people who made this revolution feel like this movement has created a lot of new leaders, a lot of young leaders -- that now it's their turn," Julia Ioffe, senior editor at The New Republic, told "CNN Newsroom."
The unrest began November, when Yanukovych turned his back on trade talks with the European Union. Instead, Russia offered to lend money to Ukraine in a deal worth billions of dollars and lower the gas prices it charges.
The Ukranian economy is struggling, plagued by corruption, inefficiency and heavy government debt.
They stayed in the center of the city for months in a standoff with security forces that occasionally flared into the violence.
The situation worsened dramatically last week as clashes between the two sides intensified and gunfire broke out, leaving 88 people dead.
Amid the chaos on the streets, foreign diplomats stepped up efforts to find an agreement between Yanukovych and the opposition to end the fighting.
On Friday, the intense negotiations resulted in a breakthrough deal to reduce the president's powers and roll back parts of the Constitution, which gave them to him.
Yanukovich then left the capital and security forces withdrew from key protest areas --  setting in motion the changes that unfolded over the weekend.
Diplomatic wheels turned Tuesday as much of the international community prepared to welcome -- and help support -- a new government in Ukraine.
"The United Nations is committed to assist a Ukrainian-led, accountable and inclusive governance process, in a spirit of non-violence and upholding the key principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, thereby creating a conducive environment for free and fair elections," U.N. spokesman Martin Nesirky told reporters in New York.
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon sent a senior adviser, Robert Serry, to Kiev, where he met with senior officials and pledged the world body's commitment.
In Washington, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said U.S. officials were "deeply engaged in trying to help this extraordinary transition that is taking place in Ukraine."
In a joint news conference with British Foreign Secretary William Hague, Kerry said Ukraine's alliances should not necessarily determine what happens to its people.
"It is not a Russia or the United States or other choices," he said. "This is about people of Ukraine and Ukrainians making their choice about their future.  And we want to work with Russia, with other countries, with everybody available to make sure this is peaceful from this day forward."
Their comments came as Acting President Oleksandr Turchinov told parliament Tuesday that an interim unity government in Ukraine would be appointed Thursday, raising the specter of continued instability here in the wake of the ouster of President Viktor Yanukovych.
At the same session, parliament voted to ask the International Criminal Court in the Netherlands to investigate the "illegal actions of the main members of the government" -- including Yanukovych.
But the ICC public affairs unit said in an e-mail that it had received no communication regarding Ukraine and that the ICC has no jurisdiction over that country, because it is not a state party to the Rome Statute, the court's founding treaty.
In addition, it said, a state cannot ask the ICC to investigate specific individuals.
In the parliamentary session Tuesday, lawmakers also voted to hold mayoral and city council elections on May 25, concurrent with presidential elections.
One candidate has already been announced. Opposition leader and former heavyweight boxing champion Vitali Klitschko will run for the presidency, his press secretary Oksana Zinovyeva told CNN.
A dramatic sequence of political upheaval has unfolded in Ukraine in recent days after months of anti-government protests.
Last week, bloody street clashes between demonstrators and security forces left more than 80 dead, the deadliest violence in the country since it gained independence when the Soviet Union collapsed 22 years ago.
The violence continued Tuesday, when an ex-presidential aide, Andriy Klyuev, was hospitalized after being shot in the leg, his press secretary, Artem Petrenko, told CNN.
Amid the unrest, the United States has sent a team of Marines to the U.S. Embassy in Kiev to beef up security, an American official said. The request was made by the State Department and approved by the Pentagon.
Last week, parliament ousted Yanukovych, the focus of protesters' anger, and authorities issued a warrant for his arrest over civilian deaths. But his whereabouts were unknown.  Lawmakers appointed Turchinov to serve as acting President and fired several of Yanukovych's ministers.
On Monday, parliament named a new chief prosecutor, security service chief and central bank head.
Those now in power in the capital face a raft of challenges: the division between the country's east and west; protesters eager for bigger changes in government; an economy riddled with corruption; and how to handle the intentions of Russia, a vital supplier of natural gas and a key backer of Yanukovych.
The head of Ukraine's electoral commission, Konstantin Khivrenko, said the campaign to elect a new president would begin Tuesday, three months before the May 25 election date set by authorities.
But Russia's Foreign Ministry criticized those elections Monday, saying Ukraine's parliament was acting rashly, and accused lawmakers of discriminating against ethnic Russians, most of whom live in the eastern part of the country -- near the border with Russia -- by excluding them from the reform process.
"A course has been set for suppressing those who disagree in different regions of Ukraine with methods of dictatorship and terror," the Foreign Ministry said.
Russia -- which pried Ukraine away from the European Union with a $15 billion loan in November -- has withdrawn that offer, and President Vladimir Putin's role in the formation of a new government was uncertain.
Russia contends that Yanukovych was driven out by an "armed mutiny" of extremists and terrorists.
"We have not only the internal enemies, but we have the external enemies, like Russia," member of parliament Lesya Orobets told CNN's Christiane Amanpour on Tuesday from Kiev. "We are afraid of military intervention, and Putin is trying to find a pretext for that."
Russia's foreign minister has vowed not to intervene militarily, but tension is high between pro-Russian and pro-European Ukrainians. Clashes have broken out in the Crimea region on the Black Sea.
Orobets said one of Ukraine's biggest challenges is getting its financial house in order. 
"We have to make unpopular steps, and we have to have this government taking those steps," Orobets said. "Not just to have financial aid, but to have the plan of reforms to get outside of this economic crisis."
"This is not just the issue of Ukraine. This is the issue of the whole region's stability."
Yanukovych's decision to scrap a European Union trade deal in favor of one with Russia prompted the protests, which began in November.
The country's new leaders have said Kiev's return to European integration will be a priority. But in doing so, they risk an end to the aid that the Kremlin had bestowed on Yanukovych.
Interim Finance Minister Yury Kolobov proposed Monday that an international donor conference be held within two weeks. Ukraine, he said, will need $35 billion in foreign assistance by the end of 2015.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew spoke Sunday with Arseniy Yatsenyuk, of former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko's Batkivschina, or Fatherland, party, and told him that once a transitional government has been established, an International Monetary Fund-centered international aid package would have broad support, the U.S. Embassy in Kiev said in a posting on its website. 
"Secretary Lew expressed that the United States, together with Europe and others in the international community, are ready to supplement an IMF program to cushion the impact of reforms on low-income Ukrainians," it said. "However, Secretary Lew underscored the need to implement reforms that could be supported by an IMF program."
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov Tuesday warned the United States and European Union against turning Ukraine against its neighbor.
"The relationship is not always developing in constructive ways. We have confirmed our position of not intervening in Ukraine politics," he said. "We hope all channels will be used to calm the situation in Ukraine."
"It is not a good position to impose to Ukraine that 'either you are with us or without us.' But we hope it will become our full partner in the near future," he added.
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso appealed Tuesday "to all our international partners, in particular Russia, to work constructively with us to guarantee a united Ukraine that can be a factor for stability in the European continent; a Ukraine that will have good relations both with its western as with its eastern partners."
Yanukovych's base of support is in eastern Ukraine, where Russian culture and language  predominate and where many people are suspicious of the Europe-leaning views of their counterparts in western Ukraine, who were at the heart of the protests against Yanukovych that filled central Kiev for months.
Yanukovych insisted in a televised address over the weekend that he was still the legitimate President. But many senior Ukrainian officials appeared to be turning their backs on their former leader.
Ukrainian Ambassador to the U.N. Yuriy Sergeyev told CNN's Christiane Amanpour on Monday that Yanukovych and his government had "betrayed" the Ukrainian people.
Yanukovych's ouster was followed by the release over the weekend of Tymoshenko, one of his most bitter political foes. She spent 2<U+00BD> years in prison, most of it in a detention hospital.
On Monday, Ashton spoke with Ukraine's three main opposition party leaders: Yatsenyuk; Klitschko of the UDAR party; and Oleg Tyahnybok, of the nationalist right-wing party Svoboda, or Freedom.
Tymoshenko, 53, a longtime opposition leader and ally of Turchinov, has hinted she may be interested in running for the presidency. 
She is considered a hero of the 2004 "Orange Revolution," which successfully challenged the results of an election won by Yanukovych. But she is less well regarded for her performance as Prime Minister from 2007 to 2010, when she was ousted after losing to Yanukovych in elections.
"She was a very corrupt leader," said Julia Ioffe, senior editor at The New Republic. "She was part of the reason the 'Orange Revolution' failed."
Tymoshenko was sentenced to seven years in prison after being convicted of abuse of authority over a natural gas deal negotiated with Russia. Western governments said the case against her was politically motivated.
Amid the changes now under way, those involved in the recent street protests have expressed a desire for a new, untainted generation of leaders to step forward.
"A lot of people who made this revolution feel like this movement has created a lot of new leaders, a lot of young leaders -- that now it's their turn," Ioffe told "CNN Newsroom" over the weekend.
Russia ordered surprise military exercises on Ukraine's doorstep Wednesday as tensions in that country's southern Crimea region simmered, with pro-Russian demonstrators facing off against rival protesters in the city of Simferopol.
As the mood soured among the thousands rallying in front of the Crimean parliament building in Simferopol, some scuffles broke out. 
One group waved Ukrainian flags and shouted "Crimea is not Russia," while the other held Russian flags aloft and shouted "Crimea is Russia," images broadcast by Crimean TV channel ATR showed. As the crowd became more agitated, a line of police moved in to divide the groups.
Local leaders sought to calm the mood, urging the protesters to go home and resist provocations.
One man died around the time of the protests in front of Parliament, the Crimean Ministry of Health said on its website. The man had no visible signs of injury, and early indications point to a heart attack, it said. Seven people sought medical help.
The demonstrations signal the broad divide between those who support what is going on in Kiev, where the new government is leaning toward the West, and those who back Russia's continued influence in Crimea and across Ukraine.
In the capital Wednesday, the names of nominees for the country's new unity government were read to the crowd in Independence Square. Opposition leader Arseniy Yatsenyuk was named as a nominee for interim prime minister, while activist Dmytro Bulatov was put forward as sports minister. Candidates are expected to be voted on in Parliament Thursday.
Russia's foreign minister has vowed not to intervene militarily in Ukraine.
But with tensions in the region high, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered surprise military exercises.
The exercises are "to check combat readiness of armed forces in western and central military districts as well as several branches of the armed forces," Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu was quoted as saying by state media. 
Shoigu did not mention Ukraine, which lies to Russia's west, but the timing of the move has prompted speculation about the motivation.
Ukraine's Ministry of Defense declined to comment on the exercises since they are on Russian territory. 
U.S. military intelligence has seen some Russian naval ship movement near Ukraine since the weekend, but it sees no immediate indication the Russians are preparing for any offensive military action in Ukraine, two U.S. officials said. 
Instead, the officials said intelligence suggests Russia is "repositioning" up to half a dozen Russian ships near the Ukrainian port city of Sevastapol in case they're needed to respond if Russian interests are threatened.
"They want to have their assets more accessible if needed," one official said. "This will allow for an expedited response."
Sevastapol is home to Russia's Black Sea fleet, so the ships could be used, if needed, to protect the base, Russian military assets and personnel, and Russian citizens around Sevastapol, the U.S. officials said. 
"We urge outside actors in the region to respect Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and end provocative rhetoric and (take) actions to support democratically established transitional government structures and use their influence in support of unity, peace and an inclusive path forward," Deputy Press Secretary Josh Earnest told reporters.
Russia held at least six snap combat readiness checks of its armed forces last year, the state-run RIA Novosti news agency said.
Concerns were heightened in the Crimea region when the Crimean Parliament convened a previously unscheduled session Wednesday, amid local media reports that secession might be on the agenda.
But the Parliament speaker, Volodimir Konstantinov, denied there were plans to discuss "radical issues" such as the separation of Russia-oriented Crimea from Ukraine.
In a statement on the Parliament website, he dismissed the local media reports as "rumors," saying they were "a provocation aimed at discrediting and de-legitimizing the Crimean parliament."
He also urged the Crimean people to remain calm and not be provoked, the statement said.
In Sevastopol, residents told CNN they were angry that President Viktor Yanukovych has been forced out and fear that they will be oppressed by the country's new leaders.
Small pro-Russian protests were taking place in the Black Sea city Wednesday. 
A CNN team in the area encountered more than one pro-Russian militia checkpoint on the road from Sevastopol to Simferopol.
Yanukovych's base of support is in eastern and southern Ukraine, where Russian culture and language predominate. In that region, most people are suspicious of the Europe-leaning views of their counterparts in western Ukraine, who were at the heart of the anti-government protests that filled central Kiev.
Many are struggling to come to grips with the rapid political upheaval that has unfolded in Ukraine in recent days, after months of protests and last week's bloody clashes between protesters and security forces.
Russia's Foreign Ministry has accused Ukraine's lawmakers of discriminating against ethnic Russians by excluding them from the reform process.
The tensions come as Ukraine's lawmakers scramble to put together a new unity government amid continued instability after Yanukovych's ouster. 
Vasil Gatsko, of the Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reforms (UDAR) party, said the newly formed government will be officially voted on in Ukraine's Parliament on Thursday morning. The interim authorities had initially hoped to announce a new government Tuesday.
The names of the nominees for the new administration were read in Kiev's Independence Square, or Maidan -- which has been at the heart of the protest movement -- for approval from the crowds gathered there.  The nominees were selected in a meeting Wednesday of the three main opposition parties and smaller parties.
Bulatov, who was put forward as sports minister, spoke to CNN soon after the announcement. He is well-known as the activist who reappeared more than a week after he went missing amid anti-government protests, telling reporters he'd been kidnapped and tortured by his captors.
"People have to feel the changes, not to hear about them, but see them," he said.
When asked what he saw as his biggest challenge as a possible minister, Bulatov replied: transparency.
"I think the first thing I must do is to bring more transparency," he said. "It's gonna be the society, civil society I mean, who will be making decisions. The minister is a public person, and people must decide what is better, what are the priorities."
Lawmakers face the challenge of forming a body that genuinely represents of all the main political parties, despite their widely divergent views, and includes technical experts and some of the people's heroes from the protests in Independence Square. 
One candidate has already been announced. Opposition leader and former heavyweight boxing champion Vitali Klitschko, of the UDAR party, will run for the presidency, his press secretary Oksana Zinovyeva said. 
Earlier Wednesday, acting Interior Minister Arsen Avakov announced that a riot police force used against anti-government protesters in Ukraine had been disbanded.
Demonstrators accused the elite Berkut force, deployed by the government of Yanukovych to quell recent protests, of using excessive force.
Avakov said on his Facebook page that he'd signed the order disbanding the force Tuesday.
But the new, pro-Russian mayor of Sevastopol said Tuesday night at a rally in the city that he had secured funding to keep paying Berkut riot police there even after the force was disbanded.
The mayor, Alexej Chaliy, was elected in an unofficial local vote, but the interim authorities in Kiev have said he is not a legitimate leader.
Last week, the bloody street clashes between demonstrators and security forces left more than 80 dead, the deadliest violence in the country since it gained independence when the Soviet Union collapsed 22 years ago.
Russia, which backed Yanukovych, contends that the President was driven out by an "armed mutiny" of extremists and terrorists. A warrant has been issued for his arrest, but his whereabouts remain unknown.
While Yanukovych is on the run, the diplomatic wheels have been set in motion within the international community.
Interim Finance Minister Yury Kolobov proposed Monday that an international donor conference be held within two weeks. Ukraine, he said, will need $35 billion in foreign assistance by the end of 2015.
Russia had offered Ukraine a $15 billion loan and cut in natural gas prices in November, but that deal seems unlikely to remain on the table if Ukraine turns toward Europe.
UK Foreign Secretary William Hague tweeted Wednesday: "Will discuss international financial support for #Ukraine at the IMF in Washington DC today."
Ukrainian state news agency Ukrinform said the country has slashed its imports of natural gas from Russia in recent days.
A U.S. State Department spokeswoman on Wednesday stressed that no decision has been made about financial assistance.
"The United States is continuing to consider a range of options, including loan guarantees, to support Ukraine economically.  But no decision has been made, and the next step is the formation of a multiparty, technical government.
"Once that government is formed, we will begin to take immediate steps, in coordination with multilateral and bilateral partners, that could compliment an IMF package, to support Ukraine," said spokeswoman Jen Psaki.
Speaking in Washington on Tuesday, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said officials were "deeply engaged in trying to help this extraordinary transition that is taking place in Ukraine."
In a joint news conference with Hague, Kerry said that Ukraine's alliances should not necessarily determine what happens to its people -- and that it was not a "zero sum" game.
"It is not a Russia or the United States or other choices," he said. "This is about people of Ukraine and Ukrainians making their choice about their future. And we want to work with Russia, with other countries, with everybody available to make sure this is peaceful from this day forward."
Yanukovych's decision to scrap a European Union trade deal in favor of one with Russia prompted the protests, which began in November.
The distance between the Maidan in downtown Kiev, Ukraine, and the WhatsApp headquarters in downtown Mountain View, California, is 6,139 miles. This quite long distance, however, is bridged by another figure: the number 19. 
On February 19, after months of protests in Kiev's center spiraled out of control, a de facto state of emergency took effect in Ukraine, eventually leading to the ouster of President Viktor Yanukovych.  In Silicon Valley, February 19 marked a turning point for WhatsApp founder Jan Koum, who signed a $19 billion deal to sell his company to Facebook.  For Ukraine, that same $19 billion would be the answer to its short-term bond debt and gas bills.   
Though a mere coincidence, the fact that one country's economic lifeline could be equal in cost to the purchase of a mobile messaging app in another exemplifies that the real distance between the Maidan and Mountain View is not geographic. 
Before Jan Koum was a billionaire and long before he was a Silicon Valley technology executive, he was Ukrainian. Koum, born in a village outside of Kiev, emigrated from a politically unstable Ukraine as a teenager.   
At the turn of the 20th century, my very own Kiev-born great-grandfather made a similar choice. Disillusioned with authoritarianism, he became an anarchist at a time when anarchism was not a meme for punk rockers and skateboarders, but an actual political movement. He eventually made his way to Chicago, where he started a small business.
I've seen first-hand the potential and technological savvy of the Ukrainian people. I was blown away by Enable Talk -- a project from four Ukrainian student developers who created gloves that translate sign language into speech. Enable Talk took home the first prize at the Microsoft Imagine Cup competition in 2012, and Time magazine named it one of the best inventions of the year.     
According to the Central and Eastern European Outsourcing Association, Ukraine is the No. 1 outsourcing destination in the region for information-technology services. Tech companies in Silicon Valley, London and Berlin are teeming with Ukrainian engineers -- Ukraine's hackers-for-hire are some of the best in the world. 
But such burgeoning innovators, held back by dysfunctional governance in their country, have not been able to enjoy the kind of success that WhatsApp is realizing today. 
At the very moment Koum and Mark Zuckerberg were finalizing their deal, female entrepreneurs in Ukraine were preparing for an event called Startup Weekend Kyiv, meant to take place in the capital last weekend. The group's website now reads: "Due to political turmoil this event has been postponed."   Mired in corruption, kleptocracy and authoritarianism, Ukraine has not nurtured the Koums of its future.
A long history of scientific and technological excellence shows that Ukraine-born talent usually realizes its full potential after leaving Ukraine's political environment behind. Nearly 100 years ago, Kiev-born Igor Sikorsky immigrated to the United States following the Bolshevik Revolution.  He founded the Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation, where he built the first successful helicopter.  Seventy years later, Max Levchin's family, also hailing from Kiev, sought political asylum in Chicago. In 1998, Levchin founded a company we all know well -- PayPal.   
In Ukraine, the hope is that the days of fleeing political turmoil are coming to an end and that the possibility of new leadership will be a move toward a more functional democracy, less corruption, and more realized potential. But whatever early promise there is in Kiev can quickly be lost if unrest in Crimea spreads. There will be a new wave of emigration out of the Crimea region if it becomes the staging ground of a proxy conflict between Russia and the West. 
Whatever happens, for Americans, Koum's Ukrainian roots should also serve as a reminder that we live in a nation of immigrants, that a continual wave of immigration is what fuels our economy. 
When Koum and his mother immigrated to Mountain View in 1992, they subsisted on food stamps and welfare. Koum barely graduated from high school and dropped out of college. He taught himself computer networking from used book store manuals and created WhatsApp in 2009.  In 20 years, Koum went from food stamps to billionaire, epitomizing the American dream, yet he is exactly the type of immigrant that opponents of immigration reform say they do not want in America. 
As our nation continues to tackle the important issue of immigration reform, we need to remember that successful companies are not always founded by the immigrants with a master's degree in hand. Symbolically, Koum signed his $19 billion deal last week at the site where he once stood in line to collect food stamps.    
Like WhatsApp, 40% of Fortune 500 companies were founded by immigrants or their children.
In March 2013, Koum tweeted about his adoptive homeland: "WhatsApp Messenger: Made in USA. Land of the free and the home of the brave." Ukraine's new leaders would do well to recognize that it can be home to multibillion-dollar breakouts if it creates a functional environment for its innovators. America would do well to remember that it needs to welcome more families like the Koums if it is going to remain the global center of innovation. 
Dozens of armed men seized the regional government administration buildings in Ukraine's southern Crimean region Thursday and raised the Russian flag in a challenge to the Eastern European country's new leaders.
Crimea, a Black Sea peninsula with an ethnic Russian majority, is the last big bastion of opposition to the new political leadership in the capital, Kiev, after President Viktor Yanukovych's ouster Saturday.
The seizure, coming a day after Russia ordered surprise military exercises on Ukraine's doorstep, has raised fears about the push and pull of opposing allegiances in a country sandwiched between Russia and the European Union.
There's a broad divide between those who support developments in Kiev -- where parliament was voting on an interim West-leaning, national unity government Thursday -- and those who back Russia's continued influence in Crimea and across Ukraine.
Yanukovych issued a defiant statement to Russian news agencies condemning the interim government in Kiev and calling everything happening now in the Ukrainian parliament illegitimate, Russian state news agency RIA Novosti reported Thursday. 
According to RIA Novosti, anonymous government sources said Thursday that Yanukovych was in Russia and that Russian authorities have accepted his request for security. A warrant has been issued for his arrest in Ukraine.
Yanukovych will give a news conference Friday in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don, Russian state media reported. If so, it would be the first time he's been seen in public since fleeing Kiev. CNN has not independently confirmed Yanukovych's whereabouts.
Concerns are building that the tensions in the autonomous Crimean region might escalate into a bid for separation by its Russian majority.
Pro-Russian members of the Crimean parliament dismissed the government of Crimean Premier Anatolii Mohyliov in a vote of no confidence Thursday, his spokesman Andrey Demartino told CNN. He said Mohyliov would respect the parliament's decision, despite many procedural irregularities.
The lawmakers also voted for a referendum on May 25 on greater autonomy for the region within Ukrainian territory, he said.
Only pro-Russian lawmakers were present in the parliament building, still occupied by apparently pro-Russian gunmen.
Demartino quoted Mohyliov as saying the responsibility for Crimea's future stability rests with parliament. 
Crimea was handed to Ukraine by the Soviet Union in 1954. Just over half its population is ethnic Russian, while about a quarter are Ukrainians and a little more than 10% are Crimean Tatars, a group oppressed under former Soviet leader Josef Stalin.
Many are struggling to come to grips with the rapid political upheaval, and scuffles have broken out between rival groups -- one pro-Russian and the other supporting the new authorities in Kiev -- in the Crimean capital of Simferopol. 
Back in Kiev, lawmakers approved opposition leader Arseniy Yatsenyuk of the Batkivshchyna, or Fatherland, party as Prime Minister.
Yatsenyuk, who has been both economic and foreign minister in past governments, told reporters that Yanukovych "is no longer the President, he is the person under investigation and accused of crimes against humanity," state news agency Ukrinform reported.
The new Prime Minister told parliament that he cannot promise to turn things around quickly and that there is likely to be pain in the short term as the cash-strapped country seeks to get back on track.
He also made clear that he believes the country's future rests in closer ties to Europe, not Russia. "The key task for the Ukrainian government is European integration," he said. 
"It means a visa-free regime for the Ukrainian citizens, and it means an agreement with the European Union on political and economic integration; agreement on a fully fledged free trade zone. The future of Ukraine is in Europe, and Ukraine will become a member of the European Union."
Yanukovych's decision to scrap a European Union trade deal in favor of one with Russia prompted the protests, which began in November. Those protests devolved last week into bloody street clashes between demonstrators and security forces that left more than 80 people dead. 
International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde said Thursday her organization was ready to respond to a request for assistance from Ukrainian authorities and would send a fact-finding team to Ukraine to assess the situation and discuss potential reforms. "We are also discussing with all our international partners -- bilateral and multilateral -- how best to help Ukraine at this critical moment in its history," she said. 
Ukrainian authorities anticipate the country will need about $35 billion in foreign assistance by the end of 2015.
As Ukraine's interim leaders work to restore stability, U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, speaking at a meeting of NATO defense ministers in Brussels, Belgium, urged all parties to avoid "provocative actions" in Ukraine.
And he warned that the United States was keeping a sharp eye on Russia in light of its recent moves.
"I'm closely watching Russia's military exercises along the Ukrainian border," he said. "I expect Russia to be transparent about these activities, and I urge them not to take any steps that could be misinterpreted or lead to miscalculations."
This, he said, "is a time for very calm, wise leadership on the Russian side, on everyone's side here."
U.S. officials earlier told CNN that the Russian military exercises were making U.S. military and intelligence agencies concerned that Russia may be positioning ground forces to be able to move across the border into Ukraine if Moscow issued such orders. 
Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu has said the exercises are being conducted to check "combat readiness."
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said his Russian counterpart, Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, offered reassurances Thursday that military exercises were previously scheduled and not related to Ukraine. 
"We believe that everybody now needs to step back and avoid any kind of provocations, and we want to see in the next days ahead obviously that the choices Russia makes conform to this affirmation that we received today," he said after a phone conversation with Lavrov. 
"We are also making the same point about reducing tensions in the Crimea to the Ukrainians.  It is very important that the process continue in a thoughtful and respectful way."
In Simferopol, it was not immediately known who was occupying the government buildings. Mohyliov, the Crimean Prime Minister, told CNN earlier Thursday that the gunmen had refused to speak with him, telling him he had no authority.
The men, who stormed the building early Thursday, had made no demands, and it was not clear what they wanted, he said.
He added that government security forces, which were outside the buildings, would not use force or weapons to take over the buildings. 
"All police in Ukraine have been ordered to be prepared," acting Interior Minister Arsen Avakov wrote on his Facebook page. "Orders have been issued to create a cordon around the Parliament in Crimea and to avoid shooting and violence."
A witness, who gave his name only as Maxim, said he saw the armed men run into the building and kick out police. "Nobody knows what is going on inside at the moment. We only saw the building being taken over," he said. He said the men took bags containing antitank weapons, sniper rifles, assault rifles and handguns from buses into the building.
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, NATO's secretary general, described the seizure of the regional government administration building and parliament as "dangerous and irresponsible."
Just when it looked like Ukraine was settling down after toppling pro-Russian President Viktor Yanukovych over the weekend, tension flared again in Crimea, the southern part of the country where support for Russia is strong. Armed men seized regional government buildings in Crimea and hoisted the Russian flag. 
Rival demonstrators chanted "Crimea is Russia" and "Crimea is not Russia" back and forth at each other.
With the peninsula turning into a flashpoint, here are five things you need to know about Crimea.
Moscow has had an interest in Crimea for hundreds of years, with its rich farmland and its access to the Black Sea. Russia gave Crimea to Ukraine in 1954, when both Russia and Ukraine were part of the Soviet Union. 
After the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, there was some local desire for Crimea to leave Ukraine and become part of Russia again, but lawmakers in Ukraine and Crimea voted for it to stay part of Ukraine.
There are actually three main groups in Crimea: ethnic Ukrainians in the north, Russians in the south, and a third group called Tatars in the middle. The Tatars represent 15 to 20% of the population and suffered badly under Stalin in the Soviet era. They're "deadest against annexation by Russia," Alexander Motyl of Rutgers University told a Council on Foreign Relations audience last week.
Any talk about the importance of Crimea to Russia quickly turns to the Black Sea Fleet. The Russian Navy has had a base at the Crimean city of Sevastopol, on the Black Sea, for 230 years. Ships and subs based there are just north of Turkey and can reach the Mediterranean to influence the Middle East and the Balkans. 
An expert at the International Institute for Strategic Studies has been arguing that the importance of the Black Sea Fleet can be overstated. It is the smallest of the Russian Navy's four fleets, and Russia has a Black Sea coast of its own. In fact, Russia is expanding its Black Sea port of Novorossiysk and moving military vessels there, Christian Le Miere argues.
And yet Sevastopol clearly remains significant for Russia. In 2010, Moscow gave Ukraine a good deal on natural gas, partly in exchange for Kiev extending the Russian Navy lease on the base in Ukraine.
Even if you don't know anything else about the Crimean War, you've heard of Florence Nightingale, the founder of modern nursing. It was in the Crimean War in the 1850s that she became known as the Lady with the Lamp, caring for soldiers wounded in the war that Britain, France and Ottoman Turkey fought against Russia.
Generations of British schoolchildren have memorized a poem dating from the war: "The Charge of the Light Brigade," by Alfred Lord Tennyson. The poem commemorates a blunder when British troops attacked the wrong Russian position and were slaughtered, memorialized by Tennyson in the lines: "Theirs not to reason why, theirs but to do and die."
That same battle added a word to the English language: It was called the Battle of Balaclava.
When World War II was grinding to an end in 1945, the Allied leaders -- U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet leader Joseph Stalin -- met to divide up Europe. That meeting, which laid the groundwork for the Cold War, took place in the Crimean resort of Yalta.
Russian military exercises near Ukraine are raising concerns that Moscow may be putting troops in position to move across the border if such orders are issued, a senior U.S. official familiar with the most recent administration assessment told CNN Thursday.
But the United States still believes that Russia doesn't plan to order its forces into its tumultuous neighbor, the official said on the condition of anonymity. 
U.S. officials -- who are monitoring the area 24 hours a day -- have not yet seen signs that Russia is preparing to secure supply and transportation routes that would be crucial to any such movement, the official said.
Russian military activity levels observed by the United States also "appear to be within normal range," the official said.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov offered reassurances Thursday to U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry that the exercises were previously planned and were not being carried out because of the upheaval in Ukraine, echoing an earlier conversation between U.S. President Barack Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
The Russian Defense Ministry has said the combat readiness evaluation is being carried out in territory overseen by the western and central military commands. That puts some of the exercises near the Ukraine border.  
"All in all, about 150 thousand military personnel of different services of the armed forces and military commands are involved in the check," Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu said in a statement released by the ministry. "Up to 90 planes, more than 120 helicopters, up to 880 tanks, over 1,200 defense equipment units and about 80 ships will be used."
U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told reporters Thursday in Brussels, Belgium, where he was meeting with NATO defense ministers, that the United States was following the developments in and around the Ukraine. 
"Until we really know more details -- what's really happening there, who is in charge, I think the focus should be ... let's keep the tensions down.  Let's see no provocative actions by anyone, any military," he said.
One concern is that with Russian troops out of their garrisons near Ukraine, they could be in a position to move swiftly across the border -- leaving little time for U.S. officials to try to mount diplomatic efforts to stop them, the official said.
But, for now, U.S. officials believe Putin is using the hastily ordered exercises only as a message to U.S. and Ukrainian officials that he has the ability to move his military into Ukraine to protect Russian interests if he chooses to, the official said.
Russia has significant interests in Ukraine. Not only does it neighbor Ukraine, the two countries are major trading partners. Many ethnic Russians live in Ukraine's east, and Russia has a major military base at Sevastopol, Ukraine.
Russian officials have complained that opposition figures who have taken control of Ukraine's government are threatening pro-Russian Ukrainians.
The United States is reviewing Russian tactics in its 2008 move into Georgia for clues about how Moscow might act in this instance. 
In that incident, Russian forces fought troops from Georgia in a brief conflict that followed Russian promises to defend Russian citizens in the restive Georgian province of South Ossetia.
U.S. officials worry about a repeat of that incident, in which both sides perceived provocative actions and Russia finally moved in on a large scale.
Any military intervention by Russia would be a "grave mistake," Kerry warned Wednesday.
"For a country that has spoken out so frequently in the last year ... against foreign intervention in Libya, Syria, elsewhere, it would be important for them to heed those warnings as they think about options in the sovereign nation of Ukraine," he said.
READ: Gunmen seize government buildings in Ukraine's Crimea, raise Russian flag
The world's eyes may have been focused on the breathtakingly fast political changes unfolding in Ukraine's capital Kiev this week, but it is the Crimean peninsula, where dozens of gunmen raised the Russian flag over parliament Thursday, that should now be the primary source of concern for Ukraine's fledgling government and world leaders.
Crimea is an autonomous republic whose history has long been marred by political tension. Gifted to Ukraine by Soviet Union leader Nikita Khrushchev in 1954, its population is ethnic Russian by just over half and Ukrainian by a quarter, while more than ten percent are Crimean Tatars who are fiercely anti-Russian as a result of Joseph Stalin's repression of the group a half century ago. 
Russia's strategically important Black Sea naval fleet is hosted at Sevastopol, the region's largest city, an arrangement that controversially extended until 2042 by the ousted Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych, who was last seen fleeing Kiev. His whereabouts are unknown. 
The large Russian population of Crimea has long viewed the central government of Ukraine with suspicion. In recent days the mood has turned into aggressive hostility towards the new authorities in Kiev. Crimean Russians see the newly-powerful opposition movement as illegitimate, sponsored by the West, and even fascist. Anti-Ukrainian protests are being held, Russian vigilante groups have sprung up across Crimea, Russian flags have been hoisted on government buildings, clashes have broken out between Russian separatists and loyalist Tatars and Ukrainians, and the Russian military has been seen patrolling key buildings and infrastructure.
The Russian Federation has done precious little to contain this dangerous dynamic. On the contrary, its state-sponsored media have covered the unrest in Crimea extensively and reiterated the Kremlin's view of the events in Kiev as a coup d'etat. Envoys from Moscow have descended on Crimea to promise Russian citizenship to all who want it and even the region's re-integration into Russia proper. 
Meanwhile, Russia's foreign ministry is warning of violations of the human rights of ethnic Russians in Ukraine, while the Russian military is reportedly preparing lists for the evacuation of the families of seamen serving at Sevastopol. Snap military exercises have been ordered by Russian President Vladimir Putin close to Ukraine's borders. In short, the Kremlin is stoking the fires of the building separatism that can be observed in Crimea, despite its official commitment to non-interference and the territorial integrity of Ukraine.
This situation bears all the hallmarks of several long-standing, often referred to as "frozen", conflicts in Eastern Europe. In Transnistria, a breakaway region of Moldova, in Nagorno-Karabakh, which is contested by Armenia and Azerbaijan, or in Abkhazia and South-Ossetia, which have seceded from Georgia, Russia has long propped up separatists, providing political backing, military support, funding and passports. This undermines the stability of its smaller neighbors, challenges those nations' sovereignty, blocks domestic reforms, and impedes European integration.
By underwriting Crimean separatism, Russia is taking the first steps toward repeating such a scenario in Ukraine. So while many in Kiev and in Western capitals are pondering what Russia will do next, the the Kremlin has already made its decision. 
Russia's choice of tactics is no coincidence. Rather, it is based on a sober analysis of the post-Euro-Maidan situation in Ukraine, particularly Kiev, and of Russia's limited leverage there. The hoped-for public mayhem and political stalemate have not materialized. Western acceptance of the new government thwarts Russian claims of its illegitimacy. The country's industrial east shows little inclination to move closer to Russia, and Western financial aid is shaping up to reduce Ukraine's dependency on money from Moscow. In this constellation, Crimea is the "weakest link" in Ukraine today.  
This leaves the new Ukrainian government with a very difficult choice. It is obliged by the constitution to defend the territorial integrity of Ukraine, to re-establish public order in Crimea, and to guarantee the safety of its citizens there, irrespective of their ethnic background. However, the central government is only just regaining control over the situation, and faces enormous political, economic and social challenges. Its resources are already stretched without having to deal with a strong separatist movement and its even stronger external backer. What is more, Europe and the U.S. will be of very limited help in confronting Crimean separatists and their Russian masters. 
Ukraine's choice, then, is between consolidating the gains of the Euro-Maidan revolution across most of the country, and risking it all to maintain control over a historically reticent part of Ukraine that may already be lost. The question that has to be answered now is whether Crimea is a price worth paying for getting Ukraine on track for democracy and European integration.
He's on the outside looking in, and the view of Viktor Yanukovych seems to keep getting dimmer.
A news conference Friday from his new quarters in southeastern Russia underscored just how dim his prospects appear to be, as the ousted Ukrainian President complained that his host -- and potential benefactor -- was not around and had done little to make his stay more comfortable.
"I consider that Russia must and has to act," Yanukovych told a phalanx of reporters who had assembled in the city of Rostov-on-Don, near the southwestern border with Ukraine and about 700 miles south of Moscow.
He did not specify what actions he was hoping for but made clear whom he was looking to. "Knowing the character of Mr. Vladimir Putin, I am surprised why, up 'til now, he has remained restrained, silent. That is the question."
Though he and the Russian President had talked over the phone, they had not met, said Yanukovych, who appeared to concede that he did not know where Putin stands on his ouster and was hoping for clarity -- whenever the two men get together.
"As soon as this meeting takes place, I will understand his attitude. ... It would not be correct now for me to speak about what Russia should do now. ... Russia must use all its possibilities in order to overcome this chaos, this terror which today is taking place in Ukraine. It is difficult for me to say what can come about, but I would like to say again that I am categorically against any interference with the sovereign integrity of Ukraine as a state."
The location of the news conference itself underscored his isolation. "I'm struck by the fact that he's in Rostov-on-Don and not in Moscow and that he has had a phone call with President Putin and not met," former U.S. Ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul told CNN. "I thought he expressed dismay that President Putin has not been more decisive to defend him."
He cited Yanukovych's comments as "signs that he is not in good standing with his current host."
For his part, Putin discussed developments in Ukraine in a telephone call with European leaders, stressing the importance of avoiding an escalation of violence, according to a statement from the Kremlin, which did not cite Yanukovych. 
In a rambling news conference that lasted for more than an hour, the ousted leader spoke in Russian instead of the Ukrainian that he has used at official functions.
Though he insisted that he's still the boss and wants nothing more than to lead his country to peace, harmony and prosperity, he offered little evidence that he was in a position to do much about it.
He pleaded for forgiveness "from all who have suffered" in the chaos and violence that have roiled the country in recent weeks. He said he would "bow down to all of them, no matter which side of the barricades they were on," but then unleashed a volley of epithets targeting those who were on the side of the barricades that opposed him, referring to them as "bandits" and "fascists."
Wearing a dark business suit and tie, he cut a lonely figure as he held forth from a table, behind which stood four blue-and-yellow Ukrainian flags.
During the news conference, he appeared contained as he fiddled with his pen. But he betrayed the pressure, staring down at his hands, which were on the table, bending a pen. When it snapped, he grimaced, then looked up and continued speaking.
"Everything that I can do, I will do to the end of my life to be with the people of Ukraine -- not with those nationalists, not with those bandits, but the people of Ukraine," he said, adding that Western countries, including the United States, bore some of the blame for the unrest.
He said that he had left his country only after his life and the lives of his family were threatened and that he planned to return when it is safe to do so.
"A normal way of life must be assured to the citizens of Ukraine, both in Kiev and in all regions of Ukraine," he said, and he called for a national referendum "as soon as possible."
Elections planned for May 25 in Ukraine would be illegal, he said, adding that he would not participate in them if they are held. "I consider that all the elections must take place in accordance with the law and constitution of Ukraine," he said.
Yanukovych said he was "ashamed" that he had not been able to maintain stability in his country.
"I want to apologize in front of everybody -- to the veterans, to the Ukrainian people -- that I did not have the strength to stop what is now taking place in the country from taking place," he said.
But he said that "any military action" would be unacceptable. "Ukraine must remain united and undivided," he said, adding that the Russian-majority Crimean region must remain part of the state but given "broad autonomy."
Yanukovych, who is wanted in Ukraine on charges related to the killings of demonstrators last week in Kiev, denied having ordered police to fire on them, killing scores.
"No government can succeed with bloodshed, and everything that has taken place is the responsibility of those who did it," he said.
"I never gave any order for the police to shoot," he said, asserting that they fired in self-defense in the face of "an attack of a mass character."
Over the last several days, the United States has been responding to events as they unfold in Ukraine.  Now, throughout this crisis, we have been very clear about one fundamental principle:  The Ukrainian people deserve the opportunity to determine their own future. 
Together with our European allies, we have urged an end to the violence and encouraged Ukrainians to pursue a course in which they stability their country, forge a broad-based government, and move to elections this spring.
I also spoke several days ago with President Putin, and my administration has been in daily communication with Russian officials.  And we've made clear that they can be part of an international community's effort to support the stability and success of a united Ukraine going forward, which is not only in the interests of the people of Ukraine and the international community, but also in Russia's interests.
However, we are now deeply concerned by reports of military movements taken by the Russian Federation inside of Ukraine.  Russia has a historic relationship with Ukraine, including cultural and economic ties, and a military facility in Crimea.  But any violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity would be deeply destabilizing, which is not in the interests of Ukraine, Russia or Europe.
It would represent a profound interference in matters that must be determined by the Ukrainian people.  It would be a clear violation of Russia's commit to respect the independence and sovereignty and borders of Ukraine, and of international laws. 
And just days after the world came to Russia for the Olympic Games, it would invite the condemnation of nations around the world. And indeed, the United States will stand with the international community in affirming that there will be costs for any military intervention in Ukraine.
The events of the past several months remind us of how difficult democracy can be in a country with deep divisions.  But the Ukrainian people have also reminded us that human beings have universal right to determine their own future.  Right now, the situation remains very fluid.  Vice President Biden just spoke with prime minister -- the prime minister of Ukraine to assure him that in this difficult moment, the United States supports his government's efforts and stands for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and democratic future of Ukraine.
I also commend the Ukrainian government's restraint and its commitment to uphold its international obligations.  We will continue to coordinate closely with our European allies.  We will continue to communicate directly with the Russian government.  And we will continue to keep all of you in the press corps and the American people informed as events develop.
It's another day of fast-moving events in Ukraine, and you're a little fuzzy on the details. So we're here to catch you up. Let's get started.
A lot. To be brief, Ukraine's ousted President sounded pretty defiant talking to reporters from Russia.  He fled Ukraine days ago but insisted that he remained the legitimate elected leader and that he would not give up. In Crimea, a pro-Russian region of southern Ukraine, armed men in military uniforms alarmed  Ukrainian officials by showing up suddenly outside two airports in the region.
Though it is an alarming development, that in and of itself doesn't seem to be quite the "armed invasion" Interior Minister Arsen Avakov suggested it was. The camo-clad squads showed up toting automatic weapons outside the main airport in the regional capital, Simferopol, as well as at a joint military-civilian airport near Russia's big military base in Sevastopol. They didn't seem to do much but look tough. Later, Ukrainian officials said they were able to stop the squads from taking over the airports without using any weapons.
The short version is that Ukraine has long been split between folks who look West toward Europe and those who tend to lean East toward Russia. Last year, now-ousted President Viktor Yanukovych decided to scrap a European trade deal that promised long-term rewards in favor of a pile of quick cash offered up by Russia. The pivot toward Russia set off protests by the pro-European crowd that climaxed in deadly clashes with security forces last week. Dozens died before a European-brokered peace deal ended the fighting. But Yanukovych fled before the deal could all be implemented, first to pro-Russian strongholds in Ukraine, then finally to Russia.
Pretty much this: I'm still president. I had to leave Ukraine because people kept trying to kill me. And "Western powers" are to blame for all of this chaos. He also said that he won't ask Russian President Vladimir Putin for military muscle to help restore him to power, and seemed to reject talk of splitting up Ukraine into pro-European and pro-Russian halves.
Ukraine's Parliament says it's running things.  Lawmakers have named an interim president, started to set up a new government and called elections for May. They've also been talking tough to Russia about keeping its military on its leash and avoiding anything that seems provocative.
Why does the United States care what's happening in, say, Mexico? Pretty much the same reasons apply -- the two countries have traded territories back and forth, they have a shared border and there are lots of business and cultural associations. Ukraine is literally on Russia's doorstep. It's home to the country's Black Sea naval fleet. Ukraine used to be one of the republics in the Soviet Union, and Crimea used to belong to Russia. The countries are big trading partners, and Ukraine hosts part of Russian state-owned natural gas provider Gazprom's network of pipelines that serve European markets.
Who knows, but keep an eye on Crimea. Pro-Russian forces still hold several government buildings, and lawmakers there have voted out a government they saw as too pro-Kiev. With so many ethnic Russians and a big Russian military presence there, it's a potential flashpoint.
READ: Viktor Yanukovych: I'm still Ukraine's President, will fight for its future
Obama warns Russia against Ukraine intervention, says 'there will be costs'
Tension dramatically mounted in Ukraine's Crimea region Friday as its ambassador to the United Nations warned Russia against any further violation of its territorial borders, a warning that came as the United States urged Russia to pull back from the region or face possible consequences. 
"We are now deeply concerned by reports of military movements taken by the Russian Federation inside Ukraine," U.S. President Barack Obama said in televised comments from the White House. 
"...It would be a clear violation of Russia's commitment to respect the independence and sovereignty and borders of Ukraine and of international laws."
Obama said any violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity would be "deeply destabilizing, and he warned "the United States will stand with the international community in affirming that there will be costs for any military intervention in Ukraine."
The remarks were the latest in a series of fast-moving developments that saw Ukrainian officials grappling with rising secessionist passions in the Russian-majority region, where the airspace has been closed and communications have been disrupted. 
Ukraine accused Russian Black Sea forces of trying to seize two airports in Crimea but said Ukrainian security forces prevented them from taking control. 
Ukraine Interior Minister Arsen Avakov earlier characterized the presence at the airport of unidentified armed men, who wore uniforms without insignia, as an "armed invasion."
The crisis echoed throughout the world, with the U.N. Security Council president holding a private meeting about the crisis enveloping Ukraine and world leaders calling armed groups not to attempt to challenge Ukrainian sovereignty. 
 At a press conference outside the U.N. Security Council, Ukraine's ambassador to the U.N., Yuriy Sergeyev said the country was prepared to defend itself and urged the U.N.'s moral and political support for the Kiev government, particularly in Crimea.
Since last week's ouster of President Viktor Yanukovych, Ukraine has faced a deepening schism, with those in the west generally supporting the interim government and its European Union tilt, while many in the east preferring a Ukraine where Russia casts a long shadow. 
Nowhere is that feeling more intense than in Crimea, the last big bastion of opposition to the new political leadership. And Ukraine suspects Russia of fomenting tension in the autonomous region that might escalate into a bid for separation by its Russian majority.
"We still have a chance to stop the negative developments and separatism," Sergeyev said. 
Sergeyev accused Russia of violating its military agreement by blocking Ukrainian security forces, including its border guards and police, in the region. 
"This group is making a serious mistake challenging our territorial integrity," he said.
But Russia's ambassador to the United Nations, Vitaliy Churkin, compared the reports of Russian troops taking charge of positions on the ground to rumors that "are always not true."
Even so, U.S. military commanders and intelligence agencies were scrambling Friday to determine what was needed to get a better picture of Russian movements. 
That included an assessment of intelligence gathering, surveillance and reconnaissance needs, a senior U.S. official told CNN.
The U.S. State Department warned Americans to defer all non-essential travel to Ukraine, particularly the Crimea region, "due to the potential for instability following the departure of former President Yanukovych and the establishment of a new government."
Meanwhile, Obama is considering not attending the G8 Summit in Sochi, Russia, in June, if Russian troops remain in the Ukraine, a senior administration official familiar with the discussions told CNN. 
The Russian Foreign Ministry said maneuvers of armored vehicles from the Russian Black Sea Fleet in Crimea were needed for security and were in line with bilateral agreements.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said he spoke with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Friday morning about the airport and military activities, and Lavrov told Kerry that the Russians "are not engaging in any violation of the sovereignty" of Ukraine. Russia has a military base agreement with the country.
Lavrov told him the military exercises were prescheduled and unrelated to the events in Ukraine, Kerry said.
"I nevertheless made it clear that that could be misinterpreted at the moment,'' Kerry said, "and there are enough tensions that it is important for everybody to be extremely careful not to inflame the situation and send the wrong messages."
Yanukovych's news conference was under way in Russia, Kerry said, as he spoke with Lavrov.
Kerry said Lavrov had reaffirmed to him a commitment that Russia would "respect the territorial integrity of Ukraine." 
"We would overwhelmingly stress today that we urge all parties -- all parties; that includes the new interim technical government, rightists, oppositionists and others, anybody in the street who is armed -- we urge all parties to avoid any steps that could be misinterpreted or lead to miscalculation or do anything other than to work to bring that peace and stability and peaceful transition within the governing process within Ukraine," Kerry said.
In a telephone call with European leaders, Russian President Vladimir Putin stressed the importance of avoiding a further escalation of violence in Ukraine, the Kremlin said in a prepared statement Friday.
Putin also called for a normalization of the situation, speaking with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, British Prime Minister David Cameron and European Council President Herman Van Rompuy, according to the Kremlin.
Crimea was handed to Ukraine by the Soviet Union in 1954. Just over half its population is ethnic Russian, while about a quarter are Ukrainians and a little more than 10% are Crimean Tatars, a predominantly Muslim group oppressed under former Soviet leader Josef Stalin.
Meanwhile, Russian lawmakers introduced two bills Friday to simplify annexing new territories into the Russian Federation and simplify access to Russian citizenship for Ukrainians, the state news agency Itar Tass said. 
One bill also stipulates that the accession of a part of a foreign state to Russia should be taken through a referendum, according to Russian state news agency RIA Novosti.
Making his first public appearance since his ouster Saturday, Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych said the newly appointed interim government was not legitimate and did not represent the majority of Ukraine's 45 million citizens.
"I intend to continue the fight for the future of Ukraine against those who, with fear and with terror, are attempting to replace the power," Yanukovych said in Russian, not Ukrainian.
"Nobody has overthrown me. I was compelled to leave Ukraine due to a direct threat to my life and my nearest and dearest."
In his hourlong news conference, Yanukovych accused the interim authorities in Ukraine of propagating violence. He spoke against a backdrop of Ukraine's blue-and-yellow flags before reporters in the Russian city of Rostov-on-Don about 700 miles south of Moscow.
"I never gave any orders to shoot," he said, adding that he sought peace and that the security forces took up arms only when their lives were at risk. 
Yanukovych is wanted in Ukraine on charges connected to the deaths of demonstrators, who were protesting his decision to scrap a European Union trade deal in favor of one with Russia. 
Back in Kiev, Andrii Parubii, chief of national security and defense, said Ukrainian military and police forces had stopped Russian military forces from seizing two airports in the Crimean region.
The Russian military is on the outside of both airports, Parubii said in a televised news conference from the Ukrainian parliament.
Weapons were not used during the operation, according to Avakov, the interior minister. 
Russian armored vehicles were moving toward Simferopol, the regional capital, on Friday, the Ukrainian news outlet TSN reported.
Men in military uniforms had been seen patrolling the airport in Simferopol, as well as a military and civilian airbase in nearby Sevastopol since early Friday.
Avakov said the armed men at the Sevastopol air base were troops from Russia's Black Sea Fleet, stationed in the port city. They were in camouflage uniforms without military insignia, he said.
The presence of the armed men has not affected the Simferopol airport, civil aviation authorities said.
"We are checking to make sure that no radicals come to Crimea from Kiev, from the Ukraine," said one man outside the airport, who didn't give his name. "We don't want radicals, we don't want fascism, we don't want problems."
Other men outside the airport, dressed in black rather than military fatigues, said they belonged to the pro-Russia Unity Party and had come on the orders of the new Crimean administration -- voted in Thursday after armed men seized regional government buildings.
Concerned about the latest developments, Ukraine's parliament passed a resolution Friday that demanded Russia halt any activity that can be interpreted as an attack on its sovereignty. 
Moscow alarmed some observers by announcing the surprise military exercises Wednesday in its western and central areas, near the Ukraine border.
Meanwhile, Ukraine's largest telecom firm was unable to provide data and voice connectivity between Crimea and the rest of Ukraine because unknown people had seized telecommunications nodes and destroyed cables, it said Friday. There is almost no phone connectivity or Internet service across Crimea, said Ukrtelecom, which is the only landline provider.
U.S. President Barack Obama didn't speak very long at the White House on Friday, but his message was clear: Russia should not use military force to change the fate of Ukraine.
"The United States will stand with the international community in affirming that there will be costs for any military intervention in Ukraine," Obama said.
The president made his remarks as events moved quickly in Ukraine, with troops believed to be from Russia moving into Crimea, the southern section of Ukraine that favors close ties with neighboring Russia. Other parts of Ukraine and the new government leaders want to align with Europe.
"We are now deeply concerned by reports of military movements taken by the Russian Federation inside of Ukraine," Obama said. "Russia has a historic relationship with Ukraine, including cultural and economic ties, and a military facility in Crimea, but any violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity would be deeply destabilizing, which is not in the interest of Ukraine, Russia, or Europe.
"It would represent a profound interference in matters that must be determined by the Ukrainian people."
"Throughout this crisis, we have been very clear about one fundamental principle: The Ukrainian people deserve the opportunity to determine their own future," he said.
Just before Obama spoke, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, called for an "urgent international" mediation mission to Crimea.
Also, a bipartisan group of 12 senators from the Foreign Relations Committee expressed support for U.S. assistance in Ukraine and warned of Russian intervention.
"We do not seek confrontation with President Putin and his government, but simply to ensure that Russia abides by its commitments and adheres to core principles of international law.  A peaceful, democratic, stable, and sovereign Ukraine is in our national interest," the senators wrote in a letter to Obama.
Vice President Joe Biden spoke with Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk on Friday to "reaffirm the United States' strong support for the new government and our commitment to the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and democratic future of Ukraine," a statement from the vice president's office said.
The State Department warned U.S. citizens Friday night to avoid non-essential travel to Ukraine, particularly to the Crimean Peninsula, citing instability.  
Russia's upper house of Parliament gives the green light for the incursion of military forces into Ukraine's volatile Crimea region. 
President Vladimir Putin justifies the move as a necessary step to the protection of Russian citizens and military personnel in southern Crimea.
Ukraine's new government calls out what it calls Russia's threat on its sovereignty. 
U.S. President Barack Obama warns of the "costs" Russia faces for its actions. 
With Ukraine possibly teetering on the brink of war, here are three things you need to know about the conflict.
A justification for Russian might in the region is its claim of the need protect the Black Sea Fleet in the Ukraine.
Based in Sevastopol, the force is the smallest of the Russian navy's four fleets -- which once included some 18 submarines, two cruisers, 30 destroyers and frigates and around 100 smaller combat ships, according to Jane's International Defense Review. Many vessels are aging and in need of maintenance. 
The Russian navy has had a base in Sevastopol for 230 years. The ships and subs are based just north of Turkey and can reach the Mediterranean.
The fleet has been a point of contention since 1954, when the former Soviet Union transferred the Crimea, including Sevastapol, to Ukraine, according to Jane's. In 2010, the two countries reached an agreement to permit the fleet to stay in Sevastopol until 2042. 
Under the deal, Ukraine received a 30% discount on the cost of natural gas supplies from Russia, potentially saving Ukraine up to between $40 billion over a10-year period.  
The fleet has allowed Moscow to exert its influence in the Eastern Mediterranean, Balkans and Middle East, according to Christian Le Miere, an expert at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. 
"The importance of the Mediterranean to Russia was highlighted in 2013, when, amid the civil war in Syria, Moscow declared the creation of a 'permanent task force' for the sea and bolstered its presence to 10 vessels," he wrote. "In August 2008, it was the Black Sea Fleet that provided the 13 vessels used to defeat the small Georgian navy and land troops in Abkhazia and Poti during the brief war."
According to the Russian state news agency Itar-Tass, the country's constitution requires that the Federation Council must consider and debate the use armed forces outside Russia following a request from the president. The request should contain "sound reasons" for the use of the military. 
The chair of the council then sends the request to the upper house's committee on defense and security and the committee on international relations.
After the council considers the request, the president and the prime minister are invited to attend a council meeting, according to Itar-Tass. The meeting opens with a report delivered by the president or a representative.
Then, the conclusions of the council committees on defense and security and international relations are read.
A final decision on allowing the use of the armed forces outside the country must be adopted by a majority of the council members and and made formal in a resolution of the upper house, according to the news agency. The document is forwarded to the president within two days of its adoption.
In 2008, Russia's incursion into the former Soviet republic of Georgia followed the launch of a Georgian campaign against the Russian-backed separatist territory of South Ossetia.
Russian tanks, troops and armored vehicles poured into South Ossetia and another breakaway Georgian territory, Abkhazia, advancing into Georgian cities across the administrative borders within those regions.
The two sides blamed each other for starting the conflict, as well as for a wide variety of offenses leading up to and during the fighting, including ethnic cleansing.
Russia and Georgia signed a French-brokered, six-point cease-fire agreement that allowed Russian forces to establish a buffer zone inside Georgia within a few kilometers of South Ossetia. 
Leaders of a shaky new government in Ukraine were mobilizing troops Sunday amid signs of Russian military intervention in Ukraine's Crimean peninsula.
The Ukrainian National Security Council ordered the mobilization as Russian President Vladimir Putin appeared to dismiss warnings from world leaders to avoid military intervention in Crimea, a senior Ukrainian official, Andriy Parubiy, said. The news came as evidence mounted that pro-Russian forces were already in Crimea, an autonomous region of eastern Ukraine with strong loyalty to neighboring Russia.
A sense of escalating crisis swirled Saturday night, with U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry condemning what he called "the Russian Federation's invasion and occupation of Ukrainian territory" despite a statement by Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev that no decision had been made on whether Moscow would dispatch forces.
Russia has not confirmed it deployed thousands of troops to the region following reports that armed, Russian-speaking forces wearing military uniforms -- without insignia -- patrolled key infrastructure sites. 
It was the latest in fast-moving developments that saw Russia's Parliament sign off on Putin's request to send military forces into Ukraine, raising the stakes in the escalating game of brinksmanship. 
Putin cited in his request a threat posed to the lives of Russian citizens and military personnel based in southern Crimea. Ukrainian officials have vehemently denied Putin's claim. CNN crews in and around Crimea's regional capital of Simferopol, meanwhile, have not seen evidence of a Ukrainian military presence. 
Putin's move prompted world diplomats to call for a de-escalation of tensions that have put the two neighbors on a possible path to war and roiled relations between Russia and the United States. 
In what appeared to be an illustration of the growing schism between the two world powers, U.S. President Barack Obama and Putin spoke for 90 minutes -- with each expressing their concern over the mounting crisis, according to separate statements released by their respective governments. 
According to the Kremlin, Putin told Obama that Russia reserves the right to defend its interests in the Crimea region and the Russian-speaking people who live there. 
"President Obama made clear that Russia's continued violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity would negatively impact Russia's standing in the international community," according to a statement released by the White House.
Ukraine, a nation of 45 million people sandwiched between Europe and Russia's southwestern border, has been plunged into chaos since the ouster a week ago of President Viktor Yanukovych following bloody street protests that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.
Ukraine has faced a deepening schism, with those in the west generally supporting the interim government and its European Union tilt, while many in the east preferring a Ukraine where Russia casts a long shadow.
Nowhere is that feeling more intense than in Crimea, the last big bastion of opposition to the new political leadership. Ukraine suspects Russia of fomenting tension in the autonomous region that might escalate into a bid for separation by its Russian majority.
Ukraine acting President Oleksandr Turchynov took to the airwaves late Saturday to warn that any Russian military intervention would lead to war. Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk said his country was ready to mobilize its forces to protect strategic locations, including nuclear power plants.
The crisis raised alarm bells with the worlds diplomats, with Ukrainian ambassador Yuriy Sergeyev calling on member nations of the U.N. Security Council to take a stand against what he called Russia's "clear act of aggression.''
"... The troops are already there, and their number is increasing every hour," Sergeyev said during an emergency meeting of the Security Council. 
Russia now has 15,000 troops in Ukraine's Crimea region, Yegor Pyvovarov, the spokesman for the Ukraine mission at the United Nations, told CNN ahead of Saturday's session of the Security Council. He did not say how Ukraine arrived at that number, or whether that included troops already stationed at a Russian base in the region. 
Vitaly Churkin, Russia's ambassador to the United Nations, rejected Ukraine's calls to stop Russian intervention. "We can't  agree with this at all," he said.
He blamed members of the European Union for causing the bloody street demonstrations in Ukraine.
"It's a difficult situation in the past few hours," Churkin said, claiming that there were Ukrainian forces from Kiev en route to to overthrow the local pro-Russian governments in eastern Ukraine and Crimea and establish new ones that would enforce the power of the new Ukrainian government. 
Churkin has said reports of Russian troops taking charge of positions on the ground were rumors and noted that rumors "are always not true."
The Russian Parliament vote Saturday came on the day that the newly installed pro-Russian leader of Crimea, Sergey Aksyonov, asked Putin for help in maintaining peace on the Black Sea peninsula -- where Russia's  fleet is based at Sevastopol.
Security forces "are unable to efficiently control the situation in the republic," he said in comments broadcast on Russian state channel Russia 24. Aksyonov was installed as the region's premier after armed men took over the Crimean Parliament building on Thursday.
Aksyonov said  that a referendum on greater Crimean autonomy, originally set for May 25, would be moved to March 30.
"Ukraine will not be provoked, we will not use force. We demand that the government of the Russian Federation immediately withdraw its troops and return to their home bases," he said during a televised Cabinet meeting.
Meanwhile, Ukraine Defense Minister Igor Tenyukh said his nation's military was at its highest state of military readiness. He credited negotiations during the day between the Ukrainian and Russian naval chiefs with easing tensions and said more negotiations were planned for Sunday.
Airspace in the region reopened Saturday, a day after Ukraine accused Russian Black Sea forces of trying to seize two airports in Crimea but said Ukrainian security forces had prevented them from taking control.
Groups of armed men, dressed in uniforms without identifying insignia, patrolled the airports in Simferopol and the nearby port city of Sevastopol. The men remained at the airports Saturday, but Yevgey Plaksin, director of the airport in Simferopol, said airport services were working.
Meanwhile, Obama's message to Russia also reached Congress, where the ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee called for an immediate response to Russia's move.
"Every moment that the United States and our allies fail to respond sends the signal to President Putin that he can be even more ambitious and aggressive in his military intervention in Ukraine," Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona, said in a statement.
He called on Obama to "make clear what costs Russia will face for its aggression and to impose those consequences without further delay."
Senior White House officials say they are looking at a wide range of possible economic and diplomatic measures to present to Obama that would show Putin there is a cost to his actions in Ukraine. 
The White House has already announced the United States will suspend participation in preparatory meetings for the G-8 Summit that will bring world leaders together in June in Sochi, Russia.
"Going forward, Russia's continued violation of international law will lead to greater political and economic isolation," according to a statement released by the administration. 
Pressure was mounting on Russia as leaders from the EU and the UK joined an international outcry, with EU High Representative Catherine Ashton deploring Russia's "unwarranted escalation of tensions."
During a telephone call with Putin, U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon said he told the Russian leader that it was crucial to "restore calm and proceed to an immediate de-escalation of the situation."
"Cool heads must prevail and dialogue must be the only tool in ending this crisis," he said.
Amid the chaos in Ukraine, an odd standoff played out Sunday at one military base on the country's Crimean peninsula.
Several hundred men, wearing dark green camouflage uniforms without insignia, surrounded Ukraine's Perevalnoye base near the Crimean capital of Simferopol, according to a CNN crew that was there. 
But rather than the tense scene one might expect with two forces facing off, the men -- who were on foot and in a dozen or so vehicles -- walked peacefully near 15 Ukrainian soldiers standing guard at the base.
Reporters have walked right up to the men in dark green and asked them who they are, but they have refused to respond. The Ukrainian soldiers are doing the same.  
That mood continued amid crowds of civilians who were there to voice their opinions about the chaos that has enveloped Ukraine in recent months, starting with street protests that were sparked by President Viktor Yanukovych's rejection of a trade deal with the European Union. Yanukovych was ousted February 22.  
There has been a deepening schism in the country ever since, between those in the west -- who generally support the interim government and its European Union tilt -- and those in the east, who prefer a Ukraine where Russia casts a long shadow. 
Emotions are most intense in Crimea, the last major stronghold of opposition to the new political leadership. Ukraine suspects Russia of fomenting tension in the autonomous region that might escalate a bid for separation by its Russian majority.
Kiev mobilized troops and called up military reservists. Russian generals led their troops to three bases in the region and demanded Ukrainian forces surrender and hand over their weapons, Vladislav Seleznyov, spokesman for the Crimean Media Center of the Ukrainian Defense Ministry, told CNN.
Speaking by phone, he said Russian troops had blocked access to the bases. 
But, he added, "there is no open confrontation between Russian and Ukrainian military forces in Crimea." He said Ukrainian troops continue to protect and serve Ukraine. 
At the base Sunday, pro-Russian protesters chanted on one side of the street, while pro-Ukrainian protesters, including a priest and a man who read aloud from the Bible, rallied on the other. A group of women sang in support with Ukraine. Those who supported Russian intervention marched carrying Russian flags. They sang "Crimea is part of Russia" and recited verses that suggested former Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev gave Crimea away, from Russia to Ukraine, in the 1950s without the consent of the people. There was a brief shouting match between the protesters but the peace was maintained. 
In the meantime, political rhetoric heated up and Ukraine's leaders foreshadowed more ominous days ahead. 
"This is a red alert. This is not a threat," Ukrainian interim Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk said. "This is actually a declaration of war to my country."
Speaking in a televised address from the parliament building in Kiev, he called for Russian President Vladimir Putin to "pull back his military and stick to the international obligations."
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry blasted what he described as Russia's "incredible act of aggression" during an appearance on CBS's "Face the Nation" on Sunday 
Other countries are "prepared to put sanctions in place, they're prepared to isolate Russia economically," he said.
In Kiev, thousands of people rallied in the central Independence Square, the cradle of Ukraine's three-month anti-government protests that led to Yanukovych's ouster. The crowd held up signs reading "Crimea, we are with you" and "Putin, hands off Ukraine."
At a military base in Crimea, a car carrying Russian troops rolled up early Sunday morning. 
They commanded Ukrainian troops to lay down their weapons and mount the Russian flag, Sergei Stichenko, chief of the Central Operative Force of Ukraine's Navy, told Crimean network ATR TV. A Russian captain ordered them to leave.
"I told him no one is going to leave the base. Moreover, no one is going to go to the side of the Russian Federation," he said. "We only obey commands from Kiev."
But back at another military base near Simferopol, a 66-year-old man named Nikolai Petukhov marched up to the entrance of the facility carrying a Russian flag. He told CNN that he hoped Putin would facilitate democratic elections in Ukraine. 
When asked whether he thinks Crimea should be part of Russia or Ukraine, he said, "If you look at it logically, it should be part of Russia."
Back in the Perevalnoye base, more civilians showed up to join the protest groups. Some women held up signs that said, "God save your people."  
A Ukrainian woman named Kseniya spoke to CNN. She was skeptical that a peace would hold for long, of the men in the dark green, she said. They "say they are here to protect us, but who will they protect us from?" she asked.
Waving a Russian flag, Petukhov, a former soldier, insists Crimea is Russian and should return to Russia with Putin's help. 
As Ukraine's new leaders accused Russia of declaring war, Russia's Prime Minister warned Sunday that blood could be spilled amid growing instability in the neighboring nation.
Kiev mobilized troops and called up military reservists in a rapidly escalating crisis that has raised fears of a conflict. And world leaders pushed for a diplomatic solution.
In a post on his official Facebook page, Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev called the recent ouster of Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych a "seizure of power."
"Such a state of order will be extremely unstable," Medvedev said. "It will end with the new revolution. With new blood."
Officials said signs of Russian military intervention in Ukraine's Crimean peninsula were clear.
Russian generals led their troops to three bases in the region Sunday, demanding Ukrainian forces surrender and hand over their weapons, Vladislav Seleznyov, spokesman for the Crimean Media Center of the Ukrainian Defense Ministry, told CNN.
By late Sunday, Russian forces had "complete operational control of the Crimean Peninsula," a senior U.S. administration official said. The United States estimates there are 6,000 Russian ground and naval forces in the region, the official said.
"There is no question that they are in an occupation position -- flying in reinforcements and settling in," another senior administration official said.
 Speaking by phone, Seleznyov said Russian troops had blocked access to bases but added, "There is no open confrontation between Russian and Ukrainian military forces in Crimea" and said Ukrainian troops continue to protect and serve Ukraine.
"This is a red alert. This is not a threat. This is actually a declaration of war to my country," Ukrainian interim Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk said.
Speaking in a televised address from the parliament building in the capital, Kiev, he called on Russian President Vladimir Putin to "pull back his military and stick to the international obligations."
A sense of escalating crisis in Crimea -- an autonomous region of eastern Ukraine with strong loyalty to neighboring Russia -- swirled, with U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry condemning what he called Russia's "incredible act of aggression."
Speaking on the CBS program "Face The Nation," Kerry -- who is set to arrive in Kiev on Tuesday -- said several foreign powers are looking at economic consequences if Russia does not withdraw its forces.
"All of them, every single one of them are prepared to go to the hilt in order to isolate Russia with respect to this invasion," he said. "They're prepared to put sanctions in place, they're prepared to isolate Russia economically."
But Ukraine's ambassador to the United Nations said his country needs more than diplomatic assistance.
"We are to demonstrate that we have our own capacity to protect ourselves ... and we are preparing to defend ourselves," Yuriy Sergeyev said on CNN's "State of the Union." "And nationally, if aggravation is going in that way, when the Russian troops ... are enlarging their quantity with every coming hour ... we will ask for military support and other kinds of support."
In Brussels, Belgium, NATO ambassadors held an emergency meeting on Ukraine.
"What Russia is doing now in Ukraine violates the principles of the U.N. charter," NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters. He later added that Russia's actions constituted a violation of international law. 
He called upon Russia to honor its international commitments, to send it military forces back to Russian bases, and to refrain from any further interference in Ukraine. 
Rasmussen also urged both sides to reach a peaceful resolution through diplomatic talks and suggested that international observers from the United Nations should be sent to Ukraine.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel's office said Putin had accepted a proposal to establish a "fact-finding mission" to Ukraine, possibly under the leadership of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, and to start a political dialogue.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon dispatched a special envoy to Ukraine Sunday evening, a spokesman for his office said.
Ukraine, a nation of 45 million people sandwiched between Europe and Russia's southwestern border, has been plunged into chaos since the ouster of President Viktor Yanukovych on February 22 following bloody street protests that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded. 
Anti-government protests started in late November when Yanukovych spurned a deal with the EU, favoring closer ties with Moscow instead.
Ukraine has faced a deepening split, with those in the west generally supporting the interim government and its European Union tilt, while many in the east prefer a Ukraine where Russia casts a long shadow.
Nowhere is that feeling more intense than in Crimea, the last big bastion of opposition to the new political leadership. Ukraine suspects Russia of fomenting tension in the autonomous region that might escalate into a bid for separation by its Russian majority.
Ukrainian leaders and commentators have compared events in Crimea to what happened in Georgia in 2008. Then, cross-border tensions with Russia exploded into a five-day conflict that saw Russian tanks and troops pour into the breakaway territories of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, as well as Georgian cities. Russia and Georgia each blamed the other for starting the conflict.
By Sunday night, electricity had been cut off at the headquarters of the Ukrainian Navy in Crimea, and officials feared there could soon be an attack, Seleznyov said.
CNN has not independently verified that claim, and Russian officials could not be immediately reached to respond.
Word of the power outage came hours after the newly named head of Ukraine's navy disavowed Ukraine's new leaders and declared his loyalty to the pro-Russian, autonomous Crimea government.
Rear Adm. Denis Berezovsky, who was appointed Saturday by interim Ukrainian President Oleksandr Turchynov, said from Sevastopol on the Black Sea that he will not submit to any orders from Kiev.
He was quickly suspended and replaced by another rear admiral, the Defense Ministry in Kiev said in a written statement.
These scenes come one day after Putin obtained permission from his parliament to use military force to protect Russian citizens in Ukraine, spurning Western pleas not to intervene. 
Putin cited in his request a threat posed to Russian citizens and military personnel based in southern Crimea. 
The crisis set off alarm bells in the West and fueled a stern rebuke from the leaders of the G7 nations of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States.
In a statement Sunday, they condemned Russia's "clear violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine," saying they were temporarily suspending activities related to preparation for June's G8 Summit in Sochi, Russia.
Senior Obama administration officials Sunday portrayed Russia's intervention in Ukraine as weak, describing it in a conference call with reporters as a kind of desperate measure from a man who realizes he has lost support of the international community.
When asked what concrete measures the administration has taken to signal its strong opposition to Russian involvement in Ukraine, the officials noted that planning meetings about the upcoming G8 summit in Sochi had been canceled. In the long term, economic sanctions could be employed, they said. The officials declined to be more specific about what those sanctions might involve.  
In discussions over the weekend with Putin, Obama "made clear that Russia's continued violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity would negatively impact Russia's standing in the international community," according to a statement released by the White House.
During that call, one administration official said, Putin did not "slam the door" to the idea that international monitors could travel to Ukraine to make sure violence doesn't flare up, one official said. 
According to the Kremlin, Putin told Obama that Russia reserves the right to defend its interests in the Crimea region and the Russian-speaking people who live there. 
Obama met Sunday with his national security team and called U.S. allies afterward, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said. 
British Prime Minister David Cameron said he and Obama were of the same mind when they spoke on Sunday.
"We agreed Russia's actions are unacceptable and there must be significant costs if they don't change course," Cameron posted on his verified Twitter account.
Cameron also planned to talk with Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite and Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk. 
Britain's Foreign Minister William Hague arrived Sunday in Kiev, where he will meet with Ukraine leaders. 
The names involved in the escalating crisis in Ukraine -- Crimea, Sevastopol, Simferopol -- make it sound far away and far removed from America's allies and its interests. But the tensions there in fact hit very close to home for the United States.
First, Ukraine is not a distant empire but an integral part of Europe. Its capital, Kiev, is just a short flight from cities Americans visit all the time: Rome, Frankfurt, Paris.
Just along its western border are Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, and Romania. All four are members of NATO and, as a result, the United States is obligated to defend them militarily if they come under threat. 
Ukraine is not a NATO member, but there had been discussions in recent years of enhancing ties.
President Barack Obama has said the Ukraine crisis is not part of "some Cold War chessboard," but Cold War-era divisions are evident on the ground. 
Ukraine's east is predominantly ethnic Russian and Russian speaking. The percentage is as high as 75% in the easternmost areas. Ukraine's west, by contrast, is dominated by ethnic Ukrainians. In the westernmost areas, fewer than 5% speak Russian.
Those cultural and historic divisions pull western Ukraine toward the West and Europe, and eastern Ukraine into the arms of Russia.
Even in the hotly contested Crimean peninsula, two out of five residents are not Russian. But Ukraine's demographic map displays a clear division, which is now playing out in cities and towns and -- it appears -- even inside military bases.
"To be sure, there is an East-West divide in Ukraine, but I think it's often overstated in the West," said Steven Pifer, a former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine.
"Certainly in the last two decades of Ukraine's independence, that line has blurred a lot," Pifer said. "Bear in mind, in eastern Ukraine, while the majority of the people there may speak Russian, it's still a majority population that are ethnic Ukrainian. The only place in Ukraine where Russians are an ethnic majority is Crimea."
"My sense is that in eastern Ukraine while they might not be wholly comfortable with what has happened in Kiev in the last 10 days, they are not talking about separatism. It's a very big distinction between eastern Ukraine and Crimea.
Third, as Secretary of State John Kerry said Sunday, Russia's military intervention violates international law, the United Nations charter and several post-war military agreements -- all of which designed to keep the peace in Europe following several 20th century wars. 
Russia's violation of those agreements calls into question its ability to keep the peace going forward as well as basic principles such as the sanctity of international borders.
Russia is claiming that ethnic Russians in Ukraine are calling for Russian help, a claim with little so far to support it on the ground.
And, looking forward, experts note there are many more Russians in, for instance, the Baltic state of Latvia, which, unlike Ukraine, is a NATO ally. What would happen if Russia did the same there?
So what are Russia's interests? Why would it risk so much for a seemingly tiny corner of Ukraine. The answer lies with one of those distant-sounding places mentioned at the start of the piece: Sevastopol.
Sevastopol is home to the base of Russia's Black Sea Fleet. It is Russia's only warm-water port, the only port Russia has that provides access to the Black Sea, the Mediterranean and the Atlantic year-round. 
This is an essential tool for projecting Russian military power abroad. When Ukraine's government abruptly shifted from pro-Russian to pro-European following protests in Kiev, Russia appeared to identify a threat to its core interests.
"I think what were really seeing are the initial steps in some form X maybe premature on my part, but that's OK -- of an annexation by Russia," said retired Army Gen. James "Spider" Marks, a CNN contributor.
Its response is the massive military intervention the world is witnessing right now.
Marks said the key thing is to ensure that the crisis doesn't escalate. And to accept reality.
"I think the United States and the international community is probably going to have to accept a half a loaf -- in other words, the annexation of Crimea may be a fait accompli.  We have to accept that and have to acknowledge that if (Russian President Vladimr) Putin is not going to act against Ukraine, it's certainly in our best interest," Marks said. "This might, in fact, be Version Two of containment -- in fact I'd suggest it is."
In today's show, we explain how tensions have escalated in Ukraine, how sudden rain for a drought-stricken state made some matters worse, and how NASA plans to keep closer tabs on global weather. We also kick off Women's History Month with a report about a young woman who's making sports history at her high school.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.  
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
What images of natural disasters are most effective in a news broadcast? How can journalists ensure the images they choose are appropriate?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1. In what southern region of Ukraine is there strong support for Russia? What happened there over the weekend? How did the U.S. respond? How did Russia address this issue?
2. What kind of satellite did NASA and Japan's Aerospace Exploration Agency recently launch? What makes it unique? How much did it cost? How long is it designed to last?
3. Who is Julia Ernst? How is she making history at her high school? How does she say some young men respond to the challenge of wrestling her?
1. What unique challenges might face a nation like Ukraine, whose people are deeply divided about their country's future? Can you think of potential diplomatic solutions to the situation there? In your view, should the international community get involved? If so, to what extent? If not, why not?
2. In what different ways might residents respond to a mandatory evacuation of their homes? Why do you think some choose to stay? What risks might they face if they do so?
3. How would you define "trailblazer"? What challenges might be experienced by a female competitor in a male-dominated sport? Why might male wrestlers respond in different ways to the challenge of competing against Julia Ernst? What lessons do you think she has learned from her wins (and losses)?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
What's at stake in the conflict between the West and Russia over Ukraine is not just the future of Crimea, it's the future of international order.
Some weeks ago, Crimea was a remote place, to historians known as the center of a war in the 1850s, while ordinary people would have associated it with some kind of sparkling alcoholic beverage. But suddenly and unexpectedly, Crimea has become a geopolitical hotspot in a conflict between Russia and the West that seems to be straight out of a Cold War playbook.
Moscow has raised the stakes dramatically with a de facto annexation of this region, which is home of an important Russian naval base and inhabited by a population whose majority is oriented towards Russia (while an important minority, among them the Cossacks, is strongly attached to Ukraine). 
It is unclear at the moment whether President Vladimir Putin sees this only as a first step, which may be followed by an invasion of other parts of southern and eastern Ukraine. 
The tactics and strategies of de facto-annexation have already been displayed in the Georgian regions Abkhazia and South Ossetia after the Russian-Georgian war in 2008; we're likely to see them now in Crimea. Under the cover of sham legality, the region will in essence be fully controlled by Moscow.
The current leadership in the Kremlin has never accepted that Ukraine, which achieved independence in 1991, is a sovereign state. It considers Ukraine to be in its sphere of influence, which means that on important issues the country must -- in Russia's view -- ask Moscow for permission.  
Putin's broader plan is to recreate some kind of "Soviet Union lite," a ring of countries under Moscow's control, with the goal of boosting Russia's geopolitical standing. Ukraine is the cornerstone of that project.
The downfall of President Yanukovych and the triumph of the popular Maidan movement in Ukraine have signaled to Moscow, however, that it is losing its grip on Ukraine and that its grand strategy is going nowhere. 
As the new government in Kiev appears committed to a close association with the EU and as Putin had lost indirect means of control, he decided to use armed force to win Ukraine back -- or at least to deny the West what he sees, in his terms, as the West's victory.
Moscow has been consistent in viewing Ukraine as a satellite country but the West has constantly ignored the risk that Russia could use armed force there.
Yes, there was the precedent of the war in Georgia, but back then Moscow had at least some arguments to back up its narrative of a humanitarian intervention, while the Georgian side lost its nerve and acted preemptively. And the U.S. and the EU were all too happy to accept Moscow's version of events and continue to do business as usual.
The Ukrainian situation is different in many regards. First, there were no serious ethnic tensions that could serve as a pretext for Russian intervention. Second, Ukraine lies between the EU and Russia, which means that the West simply cannot ignore a Russian aggression because of geographic proximity. Thirdly, the EU is already deeply involved in Ukraine. 
In the case of Ukraine, the West is not going to accept Moscow's narrative. This is too obviously a case of aggression -- the use of force violating Ukraine's sovereignty. But Putin must have calculated that nevertheless the price for challenging the West over Ukraine won't be too high -- that the West is not going to unite behind a strong response. 
Is he right? Signs of disagreement about the proper response are visible. On Sunday, German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier publicly voiced doubts about the proposal to exclude Russia from the G8. Berlin's tactic is to continue to act as if Russia were ultimately a constructive partner, which just has to be brought back to its senses through intense dialogue. 
While Berlin wants to offer carrots to bring Moscow back on the path of virtue, others think the time for sticks has come. Washington is preparing measures to step up economic pressure. But inside the EU there is no unity about the proper reaction. 
The West is far from a united stand and a forceful response. Worse, instead of keeping their differences behind closed doors, Western cracks are all too visible, emboldening Putin.
It's safe to assume that the Western reaction is shaping Putin's course of action. Moscow fears isolation and economic retaliation. The money that permits the Russian leadership to pursue costly and risky foreign policy adventures comes in large part from the EU, as payment for gas and oil. And substantial parts of the investments of the Russian elite are in the EU as well.
But it doesn't look as if the West is using its leverage. This caution may backfire. It may incentivize Putin to go beyond the de facto-annexation of Crimea and try to split larger parts away from Ukraine. 
Western policymakers should raise their game and understand what is at stake. 
If Russia goes beyond Crimea, there is the risk of a major war with Ukraine. No government can simply watch as another country invades its territory.
Beyond Ukraine, this conflict is also a defining moment for future Russian foreign policy. If Moscow succeeds in Ukraine, it will come to the conclusion that it can act like an empire. An empire has no borders and doesn't respect the borders of others. 
Moscow's pretext of protecting allegedly threatened Russian passport-holders could be used against many countries. If the operation in Ukraine succeeds, it will scare many neighboring countries and prompt them to try to buy off Russia.
Safe borders and sovereignty are core principles of the global order, enshrined in the United Nations charter and in other documents -- many of which Russia has signed. Russia is a stakeholder in this system, its U.N. Security Council seat is an important element in ensuring its standing as a great power. 
It is also in Russia's interests to insist on the sanctity of borders as it has itself a stronger neighbor on its south-eastern side -- China. Moscow cannot put the sovereignty of others into question without risking its own sovereignty.
If the EU and U.S. accept Russia's land grab, they weaken the foundations of today's international order, born out of the ashes of World War II and enshrined in the U.N. charter.
A situation where powerful states set conditions according to their own interests and weaker ones have no choice but to accept is precisely what this charter is aimed at preventing.
If one state can invade another without being attacked, without having an international mandate and a clear backing by international norms (such as the responsibility to protect), the foundations of today's international order will be at risk.
In the past, it was the U.S. that promoted and guaranteed the U.N.-order. In the role of a global quasi-sovereign, and faced with major threats, it sometimes violated this principle itself. But these were exceptions to the overall beneficial role the U.S. played in the promotion of a liberal democratic order.
Nowadays, however, Washington is diminishing its global footprint, with its taxpayers no longer willing to bear the biggest chunk of the burden to uphold world order. 
Now the West must decide whether to accept the new rules Russia is setting in its neighborhood -- or whether it has the power and strength to defend an order which has brought it decades of freedom, security and prosperity. 
Ukrainian sovereignty won't be the only casualty of Russian President Vladimir Putin's efforts to assert Russian influence and interest in Crimea.  
It's still far too early to calibrate how this crisis will play out and what its consequences will be -- but it's a fair bet that whether it ends in a Putin victory, defeat, or draw, it's going to make a difficult situation in the Middle East even more complicated. 
Whether Putin wins or loses in Ukraine, the odds that Russia could be a reliable partner for the U.S. have decreased dramatically.  And this only reinforces the painfully obvious:  When it comes to the core issues facing the U.S. in the Middle East, the U.S. must focus on outcomes, not solutions, and be very sober about what it might do to contribute to them.
As go Putin's fortunes, so go those of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. However the crisis turns out, with one possible exception, the Syrian regime is likely to benefit. And that exception is the highly unlikely contingency that Putin is so weakened from a botched policy in Ukraine or an uncharacteristically bold response from the United States and the West that he is permanently damaged and diminished, or removed from power. Not likely.
The possibility that events in Ukraine will leave Putin victorious will only buck up al-Assad further and demonstrate that Russian street cred is rising.  After all, in September, Putin masterfully intervened and used diplomacy to stay a U.S. military response against al-Assad's use of chemical weapons against civilians. 
Now Putin appears to be standing up to the international community and ready to use force to protect Russia's interests in Ukraine. He's clearly not prepared to do that for Syria. But victories for Russia, particularly in the face of the West's empty rhetoric and red lines, can only reinforce al-Assad's conviction that he's betting on the right ally.
A Putin win -- maintaining significant Russian influence in Ukraine that clearly undermines Ukraine's sovereignty -- will leave Russia stronger and more dependable as a partner and ally in the eyes of al-Assad and, probably, Iran.  
Although Iran is not nearly as dependent on Moscow as al-Assad is, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei looks at the crisis and sees Russian resolve in the face of a feeble West. The hardliners in Tehran will draw their own conclusions about their margin for maneuver in maintaining nuclear weapons aspirations.  
Russia has never been as allergic as America to the possibility that Iran will become a nuclear threshold weapons state. Iran will cut its own deal with America on the nuclear issue if it gets the right terms, regardless of what Putin thinks. But given the long odds against a comprehensive accord, should diplomacy fail, Tehran will likely be able to count on Russia to block punitive action in the U.N. Security Council and discourage the use of U.S. military force.  
A Putin defeat in Ukraine won't help matters in the Middle East much either, unless the crisis somehow delivers a knockout blow to Putin. 
A chastened Putin would probably be even more ornery and recalcitrant about cooperating with the international community on Middle Eastern issues.
But either way, the Russians are determined to frustrate U.S. solutions to Middle Eastern problems that seem like a Pax Americana and exclude Moscow. The reaction to the West's efforts -- to meddle in what Putin believes is Russia's sphere of influence and to oppose Moscow -- will create a mini-Cold War that could, for the remainder of the Obama administration and probably beyond, freeze productive U.S.-Russian cooperation across the board. 
Beyond this, should Russia manage to have its  way in Ukraine, smaller powers will take notice, particularly those nations whose interests can be at odds with the West and the U.S.
Russia is not a small power. But it is standing up to America and the West.  And for the true smaller powers, how "big" reacts when faced with a challenge from "small" can be instructive.  And the Syrians, Iranians and North Koreans will pay attention to the West's resolve. It can't be a good thing if Russia acts in Ukraine without cost and consequence.
Israel isn't a friend of Russia nor an adversary of the U.S. But the Israelis have already seen what U.S. words mean when it comes to their own determination to continue settlement policy, and to U.S. threats to use military force in Syria, or even against Iran. And they have concluded that words mean very little. 
The Saudis have reached many of the same conclusions about the Obama administration's willingness to say what it means -- and more important, act upon what it says.
Over the years, America has gotten into trouble when the issue of protecting its credibility is the be-all and end-all, in defiance of common sense and wise policy. 
Credibility comes from believability -- when a president speaks of policy, he will make good on his words, if need be.
If there is is no cost or consequence for saying no to the U.S., then Washington will have zero street cred. At the same time, if the U.S. tries to maintain credibility by doing dumb or stupid things, or by overreaching, it undermines what it's attempting to protect.
The Obama administration's street cred is very low.  Everyone says no to the U.S., seemingly without consequence: al-Assad; Putin; Afghanistan's President Hamid Karzai; North Korean leader Kim Jong-un; Iraq's President Nuri al-Maliki. It seems the U.S. even gets "yes, buts" from friends and allies like Israeli President Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas. 
Partly this comes from the U.S. setting expectations too high; misreading the way the world actually is; underestimating how determined smaller powers can be; and it comes from the reality that America doesn't control the world now and never did.
We have a very risk-averse president who's focused more on domestic affairs than foreign policy. And he is a leader more committed to improving the middle class as his legacy than he is to the Middle East and its insoluble troubles. 
That president is facing a crisis in Ukraine, where geography, history, and proximity favor Putin and leave Washington with a weaker hand. Perhaps some face-saving win-win can be devised. But if not -- and perhaps unfairly, because Obama's options are bad ones -- America will again be judged a weak and feckless power. 
As for the Middle East, regardless of how Ukraine goes, the President's fortunes will remain more or less the same: The U.S. will remain shackled with a Putin who is no friend and stuck in a region it can neither repair nor leave.
The standoff in Ukraine's Crimea region is a strange one, where soldiers appear to be standing around amid an air of calm. They wear no military insignia, but there's little doubt about who they are. 
Russian forces "have complete operational control of the Crimean peninsula," a senior U.S. administration official told CNN, with estimates of 6,000 Russian ground and naval forces in the region. A law is being considered in the Russian parliament that would allow Crimea to be annexed, according to the parliament's website.
Armed men are blocking 10 Ukrainian military and naval bases in Crimea, the newly appointed naval commander of Ukraine, Rear Adm. Serhei Gayduk, told a Ukrainian TV station.
Many ethnic Russians live in Crimea, where support for Russia is strong. Part of Russia's navy -- the Russian Black Sea Fleet -- has a base in Crimea's city of Sevastopol that has been there for 230 years. 
In Crimea's capital, Simferopol, soldiers were circling government buildings and patrolling some streets, but their presence did not feel invasive, CNN correspondent Diana Magnay reported Monday. 
It appears that there is a "war of information" in the region "between those who watch Russian state TV and those who are getting their news from the West, none of them listening to the calls from Kiev for unity in this country," Magnay reported. 
Crimea's First Vice-Premier Rustam Temirgaliyev also described the situation as quiet, Russian state news agency ITAR Tass reported on Monday.
"Despite hysteria in Ukraine's central media, the situation on the peninsula remains absolutely calm. No conflicts have flared up in Crimea over the past 24 hours. Crimea has preserved its inter-ethnic peace," Temirgaliyev said, according to ITAR Tass. 
The calmness contrasts with reports that Russia has issued an ultimatum to Ukrainian forces in Crimea to clear out by 5 a.m. Tuesday or face a "military storm," according to a report from Russian state-run news agency Interfax, citing a Ukrainian Defense Ministry source.
Additionally, Ukrainian Defense Ministry spokesman Vladislav Seleznyov told CNN that Russia's Black Sea fleet commander went aboard a blocked Ukrainian warship in Sevastopol harbor on Monday and issued an ultimatum: Swear allegiance to the new Crimean authorities, surrender, or face an attack. The Russian commander, Aleksandr Vitko, did not mention a deadline, Seleznyov said. 
But Russia denies plans to storm the Ukrainian military units in Crimea, Interfax said, citing an unidentified spokesman for the Russian Black Sea Fleet. Interfax said the spokesman called these reports "utter rubbish." 
"We have gotten used to hearing claims that we are conducting military operations against our Ukrainian colleagues," said the spokesman, adding, "Attempts to set us against each other will fail." 
Meanwhile, Seleznyov told CNN that up to 12 trucks full of Russian troops have crossed into the eastern Crimean city of Kerch from Russia. 
Additionally, Ukrainian Border Service Assistant Chief Col. Sergei Astakhov described Russian troop movements by ferry from Russia across the Strait of Kerch in a phone conversation. 
Astakhov said the first two ferries carrying armed men were navigating toward the ferry dock and border post in Kerch. As the ferries approached the port, 10 heavily armed troops from the Russian Black Sea Fleet attacked the border post from land and used force to overwhelm the Ukrainian border guards, Astakhov said.
The account of the attack contradicts the calm scene that CNN correspondents had observed in Kerch earlier Monday. Close to 100 men in green uniforms, carrying weapons such as AK-47s, lingered outside the main entrance to the ferry port Monday. Soldiers around there were not masked -- they were relaxing, eating and drinking tea, CNN's Ben Wedeman reported. 
Half the soldiers were sitting around and waiting, with some standing and others spaced out every 100 meters. They appeared not to be on high alert. One Ukrainian soldier with an insignia remained by the entrance where cars enter the ferry port. 
Three six-wheeled military trucks, used for transporting troops, have black license plates indicative of Russian forces based in Crimea, per the agreement between Ukraine and Russia. 
An officer who wished to be identified only as Alexander, wearing a hat with the Russian Black Sea Fleet insignia, told CNN he and others from the Sevastopol naval base had been deployed outside the ferry port since Saturday. If they weren't there, he said, "there would be a civil war in Ukraine." 
Alexander said the troops are there to protect their Ukrainian brothers from those who seized power locally in Kiev. Ukrainians gave them places to stay and shower, and locals have brought them food, he said.
The troops will stay in Kerch until Crimea decides what it wants to do, Alexander said.
Crimea is the last major stronghold of opposition to the new political leadership in Ukraine. The country's President, Viktor Yanukovych, was ousted February 22 after months of anti-government protests reached a bloody climax. Street clashes between demonstrators and security forces left more than 80 dead.
Russia showed no signs of backing down Monday even as world leaders threatened sanctions and sternly rebuked the country for sending troops into Ukraine.
At an emergency U.N. Security Council meeting to discuss the unfolding crisis, Ukraine's envoy asked for help, saying that Russia had used planes, boats and helicopters to flood the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea with 16,000 troops in the past week.
"So far, Ukrainian armed forces have exercised restraint and refrained from active resistance to the aggression, but they are in full operational readiness," Ukrainian Ambassador Yuriy Sergeyev said.
As diplomats at the meeting asked Russia to withdraw its troops and called for mediation to end the crisis, Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin insisted his country's aims were preserving democracy, protecting millions of Russians in Ukraine and stopping radical extremists.
He said ousted President Viktor Yanukovych remains Ukraine's elected leader and has asked Russia to send troops. 
The Russian envoy read a letter from Yanukovych at the U.N. meeting, describing Ukraine as a country "on the brink of civil war," plagued by "chaos and anarchy."
"People are being persecuted for language and political reasons," the letter said. "So in this regard, I would call on the President of Russia, Mr. Putin, asking him to use the armed forces of the Russian Federation to establish legitimacy, peace, law and order, stability and defending the people of Ukraine."
U.S. Ambassador Samantha Power said Russia's claims about the situation in Ukraine are untrue and warned that sending military forces "could be devastating."
Yanukovych, she said, abandoned his post last month and was then voted out of office by Ukraine's democratically elected parliament.
"Russian military action is not a human rights protection mission," Power said. "It is a violation of international law."
Earlier Monday, global stocks slipped on fears things could get worse, and diplomats grasped for a way to stop the situation from escalating.
British Foreign Secretary William Hague called the situation Europe's most serious crisis of the still-young 21st century.  
And U.S. President Barack Obama said the United States is examining a series of economic and diplomatic steps to "isolate Russia," and he called on Congress to work with his administration on an economic assistance package for Ukraine.
In Crimea, more Russian troops arrived, surrounding military posts and other facilities and taking effective control of the peninsula from Ukrainian authorities. What they planned to do next remained unclear. 
Analysts told CNN the apparently growing presence of Russian troops in Crimea means there's a risk the tense standoff could escalate.
"There are lots of unintended consequences when you have armed men staring at each other in places like you do in Crimea," said Michael McFaul, the former U.S. Ambassador to Russia. "So I think we all need to be very vigilant and worry about the worst case scenario, because it's no one's interest ... to see all out civil war in this country in the heart of Europe of 50 million people."
Putin's moves into Ukraine come as the Russian leader struggles to deal with a political crisis in the neighboring country that didn't unfold as his government hoped, according to Russia analyst Jill Dougherty, formerly CNN's Moscow bureau chief.
"Putin has been trying to figure out what to do. So now he's taking these steps," Dougherty said. "And I think that he probably thinks that they're carefully calibrated. But he really is playing with fire."
In one ominous incident, a Ukrainian Defense Ministry spokesman said the commander of Russia's Black Sea fleet boarded a blocked Ukrainian warship and issued a threat.
"Swear allegiance to the new Crimean authorities, or surrender, or face an attack," he said, according to the spokesman, Vladislav Seleznyov.
But a spokesman for the Russian Black Sea Fleet said there are no plans to storm Ukrainian military units in Crimea, according to the state-run Interfax news agency.
And one Crimean official has reportedly described the situation there as quiet.
Despite the assurances, stocks fell around the world, with Russian stocks leading the way as investors parsed the day's developments. Markets declined in Asia, Europe and the United States, where the benchmark Dow Jones fell 153 points Monday.
State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Monday that sanctions against Russia weren't just possible, but likely.
Ukraine's shaky new government has mobilized troops and called up military reservists.
In Kiev, interim Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk, who has accused Moscow of declaring war, vowed that his West-leaning government would not give up the region.
"Nobody will give Crimea away. ... There are no grounds for the use of force against civilians and Ukrainians, and for the entry of the Russian military contingent," he said. "Russia never had any grounds and never will."
The tensions have worried the West, and Russia's G8 partners have condemned Moscow's military buildup in Crimea. The world's seven major industrialized powers also suspended preparations for the G8 summit in Sochi, Russia, in June.
Their finance ministers announced some economic support for cash-strapped Ukraine.
"We are also committed to mobilize rapid technical assistance to support Ukraine in addressing its macroeconomic, regulatory, and anti-corruption challenges," the finance ministers said in a written statement.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, due in Kiev Tuesday, said several foreign powers are looking at economic consequences if Russia does not withdraw its forces.
The United States has suspended upcoming trade and investment talks with Russia due to the events in Ukraine, a spokesman for the U.S. trade representative said Monday.
Obama said Monday that Russia should consider international condemnation of its military moves in Ukraine, adding that "over time, this will be a costly proposition" due to sanctions and isolation that will result if the situation continues or worsens.
Kerry will offer Ukraine a "specific" package of U.S. economic aid when he travels to Kiev for talks Tuesday, Obama said.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel's office said Putin had accepted a proposal to establish a "fact-finding mission" to Ukraine, possibly under the leadership of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, and to start a political dialogue.
Ukraine, a nation of 45 million people sandwiched between Europe and Russia's southwestern border, has been in chaos since Yanukovych was ousted on February 22 after bloody street protests that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.
Anti-government demonstrations started in late November, when Yanukovych spurned a deal with the EU, favoring closer ties with Moscow instead.
Ukraine has faced a deepening split, with those in the west generally supporting the interim government and its European Union tilt, while many in the east prefer a Ukraine where Russia casts a long shadow.
Nowhere is that feeling more intense than in Crimea, the last big bastion of opposition to the new political leadership. Ukraine suspects Russia of fomenting tension in the autonomous region that might escalate into a bid for separation by its Russian majority.
Ukrainian leaders and commentators have compared events in Crimea to what happened in Georgia in 2008. Then, cross-border tensions with Russia exploded into a five-day conflict that saw Russian tanks and troops pour into the breakaway territories of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, as well as Georgian cities. Russia and Georgia each blamed the other for starting the conflict. 
Moscow has defended its parliament's approval of Putin's use of military force to protect its citizens in the Crimean Peninsula, an autonomous region of eastern Ukraine with strong loyalty to Russia. 
But Ukraine's ambassador to the U.N. says Russia's reasoning for a possible invasion is fake. 
"There is no evidence that the Russian ethnic population or Russian-speaking population is under threat," Sergeyev told CNN.
The Russian parliament, or Duma, is also considering a law that would allow for the annexation of Crimea, according to the parliament's website. 
"Now they are trying to create new legal basis to prove annexation of the territory they're now occupying," Sergeyev said.
Tensions are mounting as Russian troops step up their presence in Ukraine's Crimean peninsula and world leaders push for a diplomatic solution to the escalating crisis.
As ideological battle lines are drawn around the world over the situation, leaders are painting vastly different pictures of the realities on the ground. 
Here are some of the questions at play, with a look at how key players are weighing in:
Russia's take: Viktor Yanukovych remains Ukraine's elected leader, and Ukraine's new government is illegitimate. Russian United Nations envoy Vitaly Churkin called it an "armed takeover by radical extremists."
Ukraine's take: Ukraine has a legitimate government and is set to have new presidential elections on May 25. "Let's give an opportunity for that to work," Ukrainian Ambassador to the U.N. Yuriy Sergeyev said.
United States' take: Yanukovych abandoned his post last month, fled the country and was then voted out of office by Ukraine's democratically elected parliament.
Ukraine's take: Russia has sent military ships, helicopters and cargo planes to deploy 16,000 troops into Crimea since February 24, Sergeyev told the United Nations on Monday. 
United States' take: Russian forces "have complete operational control of the Crimean peninsula," a senior U.S. administration official told CNN on Sunday, with estimates of 6,000 Russian ground and naval forces in the region
Russia's take: Yes. A treaty between the neighboring nations allows Russia to have up to 25,000 troops in Crimea, Russia's U.N. envoy said Monday, adding that Yanukovych requested that Russia send military forces.
Ukraine's take: No. Russian troops amassing in Crimea and near the border with Ukraine are an "act of aggression."
United States' take: No, and Russian President Vladimir Putin is playing a dangerous game. The consequences of military action "could be devastating," U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Samantha Power said Monday.
Russia's take: Russia has said its parliament approved Putin's use of military force to protect Russian citizens in the Crimean peninsula.
Ukraine's take: There's no evidence of any threat to Russians inside Ukraine. Russia wants to annex Crimea. 
United States' take: Russia is responding to its own historic sensitivities about Ukraine, Crimea and their place in Moscow's sphere of influence, a senior White House official told CNN Monday. Russia fears that Ukraine is falling under European or Western influence, the official said.
Russia approved the use of military force in Ukraine on Saturday, despite warnings of consequences from the West, and Ukraine responded by saying any invasion into its territory would be illegitimate. 
The acting prime minister has gone so far as to say that a Russian invasion would mean war and an end to his country's relationship with Russia. 
But there are so many questions as to how Ukraine arrived at this point: Why is Russia so interested in happenings there? Why does the West want to prevent Russian intervention? How did we get here? Why have thousands of protesters staked their lives, seemingly, on their desire for political change? And why has the government resisted their calls so vehemently?
Eastern Ukraine and the Crimea have closer ties to Russia, while Western Ukraine is more friendly with Europe. Many Eastern Ukrainians still speak Russian, and the 2010 presidential elections divided the country with Eastern Ukraine voting heavily in favor of pro-Russia Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych. On Saturday, the Kremlin issued a statement that Russian President Vladimir Putin told U.S. President Barack Obama that Russia approved military action in Ukraine because it "reserves the right to defend its interests and the Russian-speaking people who live there."
The Ukraine Parliament voted him out of power and he has fled to Russia. However, in a press conference Friday, the former President said -- in Russian rather than Ukrainian -- that he was not overthrown. He insisted he was still the boss and that he wants nothing more than to lead his country to peace, harmony and prosperity. While it's unclear if he could return to power, Russia's ambassador to the United Nations blamed members of the European Union for the bloody demonstrations that led to Yanukovych's ouster.
Top Ukrainian officials, including the acting President and prime minister, have said they are prepared to defend the country. They've also said that any invasion would be illegitimate, a response echoed by the United States, which has told Russia to respect Ukraine's sovereignty. 
The United Nations has warned Russia against military action, while Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told Putin "dialogue must be the only tool in ending the crisis." International leaders have also denounced the prospect of Russian involvement, while Obama has warned there would be consequences if Russia acted militarily. 
Obama hasn't been specific other than to say Russia could face "greater political and economic isolation" and that the United States "will suspend upcoming participation in preparatory meetings for the G-8" in Sochi. Several Republican leaders in Congress have called on the President to take a tougher stand.
Sanctions, of course, top the list of options, but the United States will need to prepare for the backlash. Former presidential adviser David Gergen says Putin would consider any sanctions "small potatoes" compared to keeping control of Crimea, while Putin could pull his support for Obama's initiative to reduce nuclear threats in the world, including in Iran. Christopher Hill, former U.S. ambassador to South Korea, Macedonia, Iraq and Poland, says imposing sanctions also raises the risk of alienating a superpower. "That means 20 years of trying to work with Russia down the drain," he said.
Protests initially erupted over a trade pact. For a year, Yanukovych insisted he was intent on signing a historical political and trade agreement with the European Union. But on November 21, he decided to suspend talks with the EU.
The deal, the EU's "Eastern Partnership," would have created closer political ties and generated economic growth. It would have opened borders to trade and set the stage for modernization and inclusion, supporters of the pact said.
He had his reasons. Chief among them was Russia's opposition to it. Russia threatened its much smaller neighbor with trade sanctions and steep gas bills if Ukraine forged ahead. If Ukraine didn't, and instead joined a Moscow-led Customs Union, it would get deep discounts on natural gas, Russia said.
Yes, a more personal one. Yanukovych also was facing a key EU demand that he was unwilling to meet: Free former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, his bitter political opponent. Two years ago, she was found guilty of abuse of office in a Russian gas deal and sentenced to seven years in prison, in a case widely seen as politically motivated. Her supporters say she needs to travel abroad for medical treatment.
Many Ukrainians were outraged. They took to the streets, demanding that Yanukovych sign the EU deal. Their numbers swelled. The demonstrations drew parallels to Ukraine's 2004 Orange Revolution, which booted Yanukovych, then a prime minister, from office.
It's not just one figure, but a coalition. The best known figure is Vitali Klitschko. He's a former world champion boxer (just like his brother Wladimir). Klitschko heads the Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reforms party. But the opposition bloc goes well beyond Klitschko and the UDAR. There's also Arseniy Yatsenyuk.
In a way that inflamed passions further. He flew to Moscow, where he and Russian President Vladimir Putin announced Russia would buy $15 billion in Ukrainian debt and slash the price Kiev pays for its gas. And then, when the demonstrations showed no signs of dying down, he adopted a sweeping anti-protest law. 
The law barred people from wearing helmets and masks to rallies and from setting up tents or sound equipment without prior police permission. This sparked concerns it could be used to put down demonstrations and deny people the right to free speech -- and clashes soon escalated. The demonstrators took over City Hall for the better part of three months.
Yes, ultimately it was. Amid intense pressure, deputies loyal to Yanukovych backtracked and overturned it. But by then, the protests had become about something much bigger: constitutional reform.
The protesters want to see a change in the government's overall power structure. They feel that too much power rests with Yanukovych and not enough with parliament. 
In late January, the President offered a package of concessions under which Yatsenyuk, the opposition leader, would have become the prime minister and, under the President's offer, been able to dismiss the government. He also offered Klitschko the post of deputy prime minister on humanitarian issues. He also agreed to a working group looking at changes to the constitution. But the opposition refused.
The concessions weren't enough to satisfy them. They said Yanukovych had hardly loosened his grip on the government, nor had he seemingly reined in authorities' approach to protesters. "We're finishing what we started," Yatsenyuk said. 
Depends on whom you ask. The government pointed the finger at protesters. The opposition, in turn, blamed the government.
Street protests that started in November over a trade pact swelled into something much bigger -- resulting in the former President fleeing to Russia for safety while still claiming to be the official leader of the country. With Russian troops rumored to be preparing for hostilities in the Crimea, the future of the region and the resulting effect on U.S.-Russian relations appears shaky. 
I am a Russian-speaking Ukrainian. I am ethnically half-Russian, as my father was born in Siberia. I spent much of my life in Donetsk, a Russian-speaking area of Ukraine. Now I live in Kiev.
My kids speak Ukrainian in school and with many of their friends, and we speak Russian at home. When my son's fourth-grade teacher talks to me, she speaks Ukrainian. I respond in Russian. We don't even notice that our conversation is in two languages. 
I understand Ukrainian but don't speak it as easily as I speak English. I just never had any pressure to learn it. In Lviv, in the western part of Ukraine, most speak primarily Ukrainian, but even there, I never had anybody look down on me for my Russian. In the eastern and southern regions, many people speak Russian, and there is absolutely no forced "Ukraineization."
You might be asking what all this fuss is about in Crimea, the autonomous region of eastern Ukraine with strong ties to Russia. Why are thousands coming to the streets with Russian flags? It's easy to explain.
Many people in Crimea and eastern Ukraine don't want the protection of Russian President Vladimir Putin. But there are some who are afraid of forced Ukraineization because they have been fed propaganda by Russian TV channels for years. The purpose is to convince Ukrainians that we are divided, not one country, and that the safest course of action for Russian-speaking areas is to break away and join Russia.
These ideas have been cultivated since I was a child. I remember when I lived in Donetsk in the '90s, how scared we were that a candidate from western Ukraine would win an election and force us to speak Ukrainian. But when I moved out of the area of aggressive Russian information, I quickly realized I can speak Russian in Kiev or Lviv and no one will ever be upset with me!
Over our 22 years of Ukrainian independence, fears of language or ethnic persecution have never come true. But they were kept alive by Russian propaganda. We understand that Putin is trying to escalate tension and provoke civil war in Ukraine right now. He can't afford for a free Ukraine to succeed: His own people might get an idea that it's possible to overthrow a tyrant and build a prosperous country.
Putin won't succeed. Ukrainians are wiser than that and won't kill each other over the nonexistent problem of language. To demonstrate that, last week, people in Lviv (traditionally Ukrainian-speaking) spoke only Russian all day, and in response, those in Donetsk (traditionally Russian-speaking) spoke Ukrainian!
No civil war in Ukraine, Mr. Putin! It must be getting harder to justify the presence of military force to "protect" people when nobody is in danger.
Yuri in Simferopol told me that it's a handful of pro-Russian extremists in the streets trying to make a scene for Russian video cameras -- they are showing that these are the Russians who request protection! 
Meanwhile, the rest of the city is terrified by the presence of Russian military forces and are evacuating their families to central or western Ukraine. 
I got a similar report from Luda in Kharkov. She said that a large group of Russians were brought across the border by buses, and they were the ones inspiring and instigating unrest that resulted in putting a Russian flag on a municipal building. 
The amount of propaganda Russia has poured onto Ukraine is hard to comprehend. Putting troops on Ukrainian land is going to bring the very opposite result from what Putin expected: I believe it's uniting Ukraine.
Meanwhile, Russia and Putin are getting into deeper isolation from the world as more and more countries are recalling their ambassadors from Russia and condemning the government's actions. 
Good job, Mr. Putin! Thank you from all of us Ukrainians (Russian and Ukrainian-speaking) for uniting Ukraine against your military aggression.
Are you in Ukraine? Have you witnessed the unrest there? Share your stories with CNN iReport, but please stay safe.
The Kremlin sends troops across the border, and the United States and its allies cry foul.
It's happened before -- Afghanistan in 1979, Georgia in 2008 -- and now Russian President Vladimir Putin has essentially seized military control of the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine.
The move reflects the still simmering political and social upheaval from the breakup of the Soviet Union more than two decades ago.
What hasn't changed much are the limited options available to President Barack Obama and European powers to respond to the Kremlin's aggression.
The United States and some other countries boycotted the Moscow Olympics in 1980, and Washington helped arm Afghan rebels against Soviet forces, who eventually went back home.
In Georgia, Russia backed secessionist bids in the South Ossetia and Abkhazia regions in sovereignty disputes that remain unresolved. The United States and European Union consider the regions part of Georgia.
Unless a sudden escalation causes open warfare between Ukraine and Russia, forget about any kind of U.S. or allied military response.
Secretary of State John Kerry said Sunday the United States was keeping its options open, but he made a point of adding that escalated military involvement would "not serve the world well."
"The last thing anybody wants is a military option in this kind of situation," Kerry said on NBC's "Meet the Press."
Even veteran Sen. John McCain of Arizona, a proponent of exerting U.S. influence abroad, conceded that the fight must involve diplomacy, not the military.
"There is not a military option that could be exercised now," McCain said Monday in remarks at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee's annual conference. "But the most powerful and biggest and strongest nation in the world should have plenty of options."
On Monday, the United States put on hold all military-to-military engagements with Russia, an official announced.
"Although the Department of Defense finds value in the military-to-military relationship with the Russian Federation we have developed over the past few years to increase transparency, build understanding, and reduce the risk of military miscalculation, we have, in light of recent events in Ukraine, put on hold all military-to-military engagements between the United States and Russia. This includes exercises, bilateral meetings, port visits and planning conferences," said Pentagon Press Secretary Rear Adm. John Kirby.
"There has been no change to our military posture in Europe or the Mediterranean; our Navy units continue to conduct routine, previously planned operations and exercises with allies and partners in the region," he said.
John Herbst, a former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine in the administration of Republican President George W. Bush, suggested one possible military response would be for NATO to agree to deploy additional forces in countries with significant Russian populations.
Herbst noted on CNN that Russia used the need to protect Russian citizens and interests as a pretext for what he called "blatant aggression" in Ukraine now and previously in Georgia.
The annual summit of the world's industrial powers is scheduled for Russian Olympic venue Sochi in June, but  the United States and other members have halted planning for the gathering amid calls for Russia to be kicked out.
Once known as the G7, the group that also includes Germany, Britain, France, Italy, Japan and Canada agreed to add Russia in 1998 to reflect the changing geopolitical dynamic after the Cold War and breakup of the Soviet Union.
Revoking Russia's membership would isolate Putin diplomatically to deny him the Western acceptance he has sought.
"He will be isolated more. He won't look good in front of his people," CNN Chief International Correspondent Christiane Amanpour said Monday.
Such isolation would bolster economic isolation and sanctions -- a more effective strategy to pressure Putin.
"The G8 plus some others and all of them, every single one of them are prepared to go to the hilt in order to isolate Russia with respect to this invasion," Kerry said Sunday on the CBS program "Face the Nation."
Obama said Monday the United States is examining a series of economic and diplomatic steps to "isolate Russia."
Kerry also said foreign leaders were prepared to act as well, noting the possibilities include visa bans, asset freezes and isolation by the international community on trade and investment.
Republican Rep. Ed Royce of California, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, told CNN on Monday that  "the Achilles heel for Russia is their economy -- the ruble."
"We have to lead and we have to rally Europe around a series of steps that would actually impact the Russians economically: sanctions against state-owned banks," Royce said.
Later Monday, a spokesman told CNN that the United States has suspended upcoming trade and investment talks with Russia.
"Due to recent events in Ukraine, we have suspended upcoming bilateral trade and investment engagement with the Government of Russia that were part of a move toward deeper commercial and trade ties," said the U.S. trade representative spokesman, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Obama had a lengthy phone call with Putin over the weekend in which the U.S. leader said his Russian counterpart violated international law by sending military forces into Crimea, according to a White House statement.
"President Obama wants to emphasize to the Russians that there are a right set of choices that can still be made to address any concerns they have about Crimea, about their citizens, but you don't choose to invade a country in order to do that," Kerry said on CBS.
Putin has yet to make any substantive public statement about the situation, which follows the successful staging of the Winter Olympics in Sochi to bring Putin and Russia some pride in the international community.
The thrust of the Russian position is that it had the right to protect the interests of Russians in eastern Ukraine.
On Monday, Vice President Joe Biden called Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev to urge Russia to "pull back its forces, support the immediate deployment of international monitors to Ukraine, and begin a meaningful political dialogue with the Ukrainian government," the White House said.
Obama outlined a similar approach to reporters later Monday, saying that should satisfy Russian concerns of protecting the rights of ethnic Russian residents and Russian citizens in Ukraine.
Separately, National Security Council spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said the United States has scrapped plans to send a presidential delegation to the upcoming Winter Paralympic Games in Sochi. U.S. athletes still plan to compete.
Congress will have a say in the focus and size of a U.S. response, with calls already for a possible sanctions package.
Hawkish Republicans have criticized Obama for what they called a lack of resolve that they say emboldened Putin to send troops into the Crimea region.
McCain called Obama's foreign policy "feckless" on Monday, after House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers of Michigan said on "Fox News Sunday" that Putin and Russia had been "running circles around us."
Fellow GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham of  South Carolina called for reviving plans for a NATO missile defense shield in Poland that Russia opposed.
Obama told reporters on Monday that there should be "unanimity" between Democrats and Republicans in seeking to preserve "the principle that no country has the right to send in troops to another country unprovoked."
"My expectation is we ought to be able to get Congress to work with us to achieve that goal," he said, specifically calling for an economic assistance package for Ukraine to help provide stability during the crisis.
Sen. Robert Menendez, who is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said Monday the panel was putting together legislation to provide $1 billion in loan guarantees for Ukraine's economy.
"We are also consulting with the administration on possible sanctions actions against individual Russians and Ukrainians that range from visa bans and asset freezes, to the suspension of military cooperation and sales, as well as economic sanctions," the New Jersey Democrat said.
A Republican member of the committee, Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, told CNN he was urging the panel to speak with "one voice" to "show the Russians that this is something we are unified in."
"It will send a much more powerful signal and hopefully get Putin to think twice," Johnson said, adding that "Putin needs to pay a big price here" because "this is no time to be shrinking violets and rely on words."
The upheaval in Ukraine has spiraled into an increasingly tense dispute between Russia and the West.
The United States and many European countries are demanding that Moscow scale back its deployment of troops in Ukraine's southern region of Crimea. But Russian President Vladimir Putin so far appears unfazed by the pressure. 
By Russia's account, its soldiers are protecting the human rights of worried, vulnerable Russian speakers. But in the U.S. view, Russia is violating international law.  
With armed men are locked in an uneasy standoff in Crimea, the consequences could be deadly. And their effects may ripple out far beyond Ukraine's corner of Eastern Europe.
Some commentators have suggested that Putin has overplayed his hand by sending troops into Crimea, creating a situation that will hurt both Ukraine and Russia. But others say it's a calculated move based on the assessment that the West will fail to come up with a strong, unified response.
"Putin's broader plan is to recreate some kind of 'Soviet Union lite,' a ring of countries under Moscow's control, with the goal of boosting Russia's geopolitical standing," Ulrich Speck, a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Europe think tank in Brussels, writes in an opinion article for CNN.
If Putin gets what he wants in Ukraine, Speck says it augurs badly for other neighboring countries with Russian populations.  He points to Moscow's "de facto-annexation" of the Georgian regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia after the war between Russia and Georgia in 2008.
"Beyond Ukraine, this conflict is also a defining moment for future Russian foreign policy," Speck says. "If Moscow succeeds in Ukraine, it will come to the conclusion that it can act like an empire."
Washington is preparing potential sanctions that could freeze the overseas assets of Russian individuals and companies and impose travel bans on some Russian officials. 
But for many of the measures to really bite, Obama needs to get key European allies on board, some of whom appear reluctant to take too hard a line on Russia.
The United States has already halted trade and investment talks and military-to-military engagements with Russia. 
Questions remain over how broad the sanctions will be, and whether the United States can persuade its European allies to implement them.
One option for defusing the crisis, mentioned by U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, would be the deployment of international monitors in the Crimea to provide the protection to Russian citizens that Moscow says its troops are providing. 
But Russia isn't showing any signs it intends to pull back its soldiers for the time being.
Nobody in Washington appears eager for a military confrontation with America's nuclear-armed former Cold War opponent. "The last thing anybody wants is a military option in this kind of situation," said Secretary of State John Kerry.
U.S. officials say they are trying to find a way to deescalate the situation in Ukraine rather than provoke a wider conflagration.
But the situation would become a more complicated if Russia moves troops beyond Crimea into other parts of Ukraine, risking an all-out war with Kiev.
Some people are suggesting measures that include a military element but don't go as far as direct confrontation.
Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina called for the revival of plans for a NATO missile defense shield in Poland that Russia had strongly opposed.
The standoff has had a significant effect in global markets, pushing up the price of oil. Russia is a key exporter of oil and natural gas. 
But experts say the world's need for Russian energy supplies -- and Russia's need for the revenue generated -- should ensure the taps stay open throughout the crisis.
Concerns over Moscow's involvement in Ukraine has hurt Russia's currency, the ruble, as well as its stock markets. 
The share prices of international companies that are heavily invested in Russia have also suffered.
Ukraine, meanwhile, is one of the world's top exporters of corn and wheat, whose prices could rise on concern those exports could come to a halt.
Ukraine's Interim Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk, who has accused Moscow of declaring war, vowed that his government would not give up Crimea.
"Nobody will give Crimea away," he said. "There are no grounds for the use of force against civilians and Ukrainians, and for the entry of the Russian military contingent," 
Former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko said that if diplomacy fails to persuade Moscow to withdraw its forces from the Ukrainian region of Crimea, the world should apply the "strongest means" on Russia.
Asked by CNN's Christiane Amanpour if she was calling for the West to use military force against Russia, Tymoshenko avoided giving a direct answer, saying she "cannot solve this issue." 
Russia says that ousted Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych, whom Moscow still recognizes as the country's legitimate leader, requested that Russia send in military forces.
Reporters on the ground say the standoff is a strange one. Russian soldiers wearing no military insignia have taken up positions around the region. They have blockaded Ukrainian troops in their bases. But for the time being, the situation remains surprisingly calm. 
It has been "a very low-key kind of invasion," CNN correspondent Diana Magnay reported Monday from Simferopol, the Crimean capital.
But Russian forces "have complete operational control of the Crimean peninsula," a senior U.S. administration official told CNN.
It appears that there is a "war of information" in the region "between those who watch Russian state TV and those who are getting their news from the West, none of them listening to the calls from Kiev for unity in this country," Magnay reported.
READ: Ukraine crisis: Russia stands firm despite rebukes, threats of sanctions
With the Russian military having effectively taken control of Crimea, a permanent division of Ukraine is becoming increasingly likely. Russian President Vladimir Putin's request to the Russian Senate to approve military intervention in Ukraine in order to "protect citizens of Russia" highlights how once seemingly innocuous "compatriot policies" are being used by Moscow to justify military efforts to regain Crimea for Russia.
Russia's compatriot policies are officially meant to protect ethnic Russians living in nearby countries, but have served Russia's territorial expansionism in the past.
In fact these compatriot policies can be viewed as part of Putin's new military doctrine that seeks territorial gains in the former Soviet republics, particularly where there is a receptive population of Russian speakers.
The compatriot policies, outlined in Russia's "National Security Strategy to 2020," were introduced in 2000 during Putin's first presidential term. They call for the political, economic and, potentially, military protection of the rights and interests of Russian citizens and ethnic Russians living abroad.
An effective tactic associated with the policies is to give Russian citizenship to ethnic Russians in foreign states so as to better protect their interests. Tellingly, Russia's national security strategy emphasizes that compatriots are an important tool for achieving Russia's foreign policy aims. 
Looking at Russia's neighborhood, one can already see how compatriot policy has assisted Russia's foreign policy and territorial expansion. Prior to the Georgian-Russian war in 2008, Georgia was seeking closer relations with the West and distancing itself from Russia (in a very similar vein to Ukraine today). 
Meanwhile Moscow was handing out citizenship to the inhabitants of the separatist Georgian territories of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Thus the "protection of Russian citizens" became one of Russia's main motives for going to war with Georgia in 2008 and securing South Ossetia and Abkhazia as Russian protectorates.
But Ukraine does not have to look to the Caucasus to see compatriot policy in action. On Ukraine's southwestern border, Transnistria is a separatist territory of Moldova which has also become effectively a Russian military-controlled territory as the Kremlin sought to "protect" the Russian speakers and eventually Russian citizens.
Farther afield, Russia has also taken great pains to cultivate the loyalty of its compatriots in the Baltic states, particularly in Estonia and Latvia. Well aware of Russia's compatriot tactics, Lithuania, which currently holds the rotating presidency of the U.N. Security Council, called an urgent meeting and also invoked the NATO treaty on Ukraine.
For Moscow, Crimea is much more important than South Ossetia, Abkhazia or Transnistria. First, Crimea became Ukrainian territory only in 1954 when the Soviet Union's leader Nikita Khrushchev gave it to Kiev under the overall authority of the Soviet Union. Its loss after the disintegration of the Soviet Union was a major blow to leaders in Moscow. 
Second, Sevastopol, one of Crimea's major cities, serves as the naval base for Russia's Black Sea fleet. It is a prized territory that allows the Russian navy direct access to the Mediterranean.
Crimea is a particularly soft target for Russia's compatriot policies. Unlike Western Ukraine, where people speak Ukrainian, or even Eastern Ukraine, which is Russian speaking, Crimea is predominantly ethnically Russian. 
With Crimea's Russians protesting the turn of events in Kiev's Independence Square and expressing their solidarity with Moscow, a secessionist movement is almost inevitable. Already, the Crimean parliament announced that it would hold a referendum to increase the peninsula's autonomy from Ukraine and installed a pro-Russian prime minister.
While Crimea's fate seems almost certain to follow those of South Ossetia, Abkhazia or Transnistria, other states near Russia that also have significant populations of Russian speakers should be vigilant. 
Putin's compatriot doctrine is here to stay. Thus it is no wonder Georgia will likely be urgently seeking integration with NATO and the EU. Ukraine should stabilize its government and consider following suit.
Putin's Ukrainian endgame and why the West may have a hard time stopping him
At the 2008 NATO summit in Bucharest, Romania, Vladimir Putin told a surprised George W. Bush, "You have to understand, George, that Ukraine is not even a country. Part of its territory is in Eastern Europe and the greater part was given to us." 
Six years later, the Kremlin appears to be making sure that Putin's opinion becomes a reality. 
For Moscow, the drama that has been unfolding in Ukraine for the past three months is a domestic and an international issue. After all, if a revolution can unseat an unpopular, corrupt government in Kiev, why not in Moscow? 
That was Moscow's nightmare scenario during the 2004 Ukrainian Orange Revolution, and it remains a major concern even though Putin's popularity rating in Russia runs at a healthy 60% today. 
Beyond that, Ukraine is closely linked to Russia's return to the world stage as a great power that should be entitled to a "sphere of privileged interests" in its backyard. Putin has said that the collapse of the Soviet Union was the "greatest geopolitical tragedy" of the 20th century.  
His project for his third term as President is to gather in as many of his neighbors as he can to form a new Eurasian Union. Ukraine is the key to that project. And Crimea is the key to Ukraine.
Sixty years ago, Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev "gave" the Crimean Peninsula -- for the previous 300 years part of the Russian empire and the U.S.S.R. -- to the Ukrainian Soviet Republic because they were all part of the Soviet Union and it was meant as a symbolic gesture. 
After the Soviet collapse, Crimea suddenly became part of an independent Ukraine to Moscow's shock. Moscow and Kiev worked out a deal to divide the Soviet Black Sea Fleet between Russia and Ukraine. In 2010, Ukraine extended the Russian lease until 2042. 
When Ukraine President Viktor Yanukovych was ousted last week and fled to Russia, the Kremlin worried it might lose its lease and have to withdraw its fleet from this strategic area. 
The initial Russia move to occupy Crimea was designed to protect Russian naval equities on the Peninsula. Some 60% of Crimea's population is Russian and appears to support the current Russian occupation. But Russian interests and troops reach beyond that. 
A key Putin goal since he came to power in 2000 has been to prevent either NATO or the European Union from encroaching in the post-Soviet space. That's why Russia offered Yanukovych a $15 billion loan to counter the EU's more modest offer in December. 
By occupying Crimea, Russia wants to ensure that only a rump Ukraine could negotiate with the EU in the future.
If the current conflict does not spread to other parts of eastern Ukraine -- where there is a sizable population that is demanding closer ties to Russia -- then Crimea could join the ranks of other "frozen conflicts" in the post-Soviet space. 
These entities with substantial Russian-speaking populations exist in de facto ministates with Russian military protection within the borders of a larger state whose jurisdiction they do not recognize, such as the Transnistria region in Moldova. 
Russian support for these breakaway regions ensures that Moldova, Georgia and now Ukraine will not enjoy full sovereignty over their territory and that Russia will always have a role to play there.
Occupying Crimea and raising tensions in eastern Ukraine to prevent Ukraine from moving toward more Western influence is a top priority for the Kremlin. The Ukrainian stakes are far higher for Moscow than they are for either Brussels or Washington. 
The United States can threaten economic sanctions, expel Russia from the G-8 and consider a range of other measures, but the Kremlin must have already discounted these possible countermeasures well before it executed its carefully planned takeover of Crimea. 
If maintaining a good relationship with the United States were a top priority for Putin, he would not have granted U.S. intel leaker Edward Snowden asylum in August. Guaranteeing and expanding the Russian presence in Crimea is much more important.
Given Russia's determination not to back down from Crimea, the United States and its allies will have to focus on containing the advance of Russian troops beyond Crimea and trying to ensure that an unanticipated local conflict between groups under the control neither of Moscow nor Kiev could not precipitate a broader armed struggle in Ukraine. 
The fragile interim government in Kiev will need substantial economic support and must be encouraged not to let itself be provoked into a war with Russia as Georgia was in 2008. 
Because if there were an armed conflict, neither the United States nor NATO would get militarily involved, and the result could be the dismemberment of Ukraine and its division into two states on either side of a new East-West divide. 
Ten years ago, President Putin of Russia faced an embarrassing foreign policy defeat. Assisted by Russia's ablest spin doctors, Putin's favored candidate, Viktor Yanukovych, had won Ukraine's presidential election, or at least had won the count.
But thousands of protesters, alleging electoral fraud, surrounded government buildings, camping in the snow and waving orange flags. Eventually, Putin's Ukrainian allies capitulated. The Supreme Court called another round of voting, and voters dumped Yanukovych in favor of a politician, Viktor Yushchenko, who called for Ukraine's rapid admission to NATO. 
Putin was left spluttering. But he waited. In the winters of 2006 and 2009, gas supplies from the Russian company Gazprom were temporarily halted over payment disputes, but these were quickly resolved. Within a few years, self-destructive squabbling among Ukraine's new democratic leaders, as the economy stagnated, had discredited the "Orange Revolution." Putin found he could actually get along quite well with Yushchenko's main rival, Yulia Tymoshenko. 
Skip ahead ten years and Yanukovych, elected president in a reasonably free election in 2010, again finds himself facing angry crowds in Kiev's Independence Square, or "Maidan." This time the protesters demand he sign an association agreement with the EU that Putin has opposed. As before, Putin makes clear his disdain for the demonstrators and his support for Yanukovych. 
Yet, when his client is forced out of office, this time -- after violent street fighting between heavily armed Berkut riot police and protesters hurling stones and Molotov cocktails -- Putin does not sit on his hands. 
Over the course of a few days, Russian troops occupy the key points in Ukraine's predominantly Russian-speaking Crimean peninsula. The invasion sets off the most serious international crisis in Europe since the turn of the 21st century. 
Is Putin-2014 the same person as Putin-2004? Why in such ostensibly similar crises did he react in radically different ways? Why take an enormous gamble when he could be sure the current democratic victors in Kiev would self-destruct as quickly as the first crop? He would have to swallow a short-run setback. But Putin could then indulge his schadenfreude watching liberal prime minister Arseny Yatsenyuk tussle with nationalist leader Oleh Tyahnybok as Ukraine's economy melted down and the EU and IMF prepared a financial aid package sure to offer too little, too late, and only under stringent conditions. Within a few years, a more pro-Moscow administration was likely to emerge. 
By contrast, Russian troops in Crimea was the one thing certain to unite Kiev's factions, mobilize Ukraine's population and prompt rapid Western action on economic aid. At the same time, military intervention promised a string of unwelcome repercussions: Western sanctions, visa bans for members of the ruling elite, asset freezes, diplomatic embarrassments, even perhaps exclusion from the G8. For Russia, already facing a stagnant economy, such moves could only accelerate capital flight and scare international investors. 
Even more perverse, invasion would throw away in one day two years' worth of reputational capital, accumulated from a string of unexpected foreign policy successes. From isolation over Syria, Putin had managed to emerge as peacemaker in late 2013, persuading Syrian  President Bashar al-Assad to pledge to surrender his chemical weapons. 
By granting asylum to NSA leaker Edward Snowden, the Russian president could claim -- implausibly -- to be on the side of citizen privacy and transparency. Despite a chorus of gloom in the Western press, the Sochi Winter Olympics had passed without terrorist attacks or other disasters and with Russian athletes dominating the medals count. 
Is there a rational explanation for Putin's resort to arms in 2014? Western analysts have been at a loss. To those who have been raising the alarm about Putin's expansionist drive and wounded pride since before he came to office, there is nothing to explain: the dictator has shown his true colors. Yet this is hardly more informative than the stopped clock that is right twice a day. 
If Putin-2014 was a militant expansionist, why did Putin-2004 hold back? What to make, then, of Putin-2000 who, when asked whether Russia might one day join NATO replied: "Why not? I do not rule out such a possibility." Later there was Putin-2002 who said that the Baltic states joining NATO was "no tragedy."  Over the years, Putin acquiesced to U.S. bases in Central Asia after 9/11, shared intelligence with Washington, agreed to cut nuclear arsenals by two thirds, and defied his own Communist protesters to establish a route through Russia for U.S. military supplies to Afghanistan. 
So what has changed? Most plausibly, Putin hopes to use the conflict to ignite nationalist pride and anger at home, building a new base of anti-Western support for his leadership as he loses the backing based on economic performance. (With oil prices no longer rising, and global liquidity tighter since the 2008 financial crisis, Russia's growth slowed to just 1.3 percent last year.) If so, this is unlikely to work. 
In a poll one month ago, 73 percent of Russians opposed intervention in Ukraine's politics. Comparable nationalist rallying points in the past such as Russia's 2008 invasion of Georgia produced a spike in Putin's ratings, but one that had completely reversed within a few months. The costs of the Crimean intervention, in reduced investment and international isolation, will last longer than the immediate rally behind the flag. So will the heightened tensions with other neighboring states that contain large Russian-speaking minorities, such as Kazakhstan and the NATO-members Estonia and Latvia. 
Opinion: Putin's endgame and why the West may have a hard time stopping him
That after 14 years the leader of an increasingly authoritarian state should start to make mistakes is not surprising. Such leaders tend to become trapped in an information bubble of their own creation. 
Surrounding themselves with friends and colleagues with similar world views, they --deliberately or unwittingly -- cut themselves off from unwelcome information. 
They forget that the media they have censored tells them only what they want to hear, and that the "experts" they have cultivated are those that reinforce their own prejudices. They start to believe the verdicts of the courts they have politicized. 
Like all people but more so, they succumb to attribution bias -- believing the worst of others and the best of themselves -- and to the overconfidence effect -- the tendency to exaggerate the odds of success. The result is a distorted view of events that is self-serving and black and white. German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who spoke to Putin by phone last Sunday, said that he seemed to be "in another world." 
The result can be decisions that put the leader's own position at risk. Gen. Augusto Pinochet, after ruling Chile for 15 years, came to believe he was extremely popular. To his dismay, a plebiscite he called in 1988 revealed that most Chileans would rather have a different leader. Other authoritarian leaders, such as Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua, have lost power after calling elections that they were sure they would win. 
Although his regime faces no immediate danger, and the first polls may well show initial support for his moves, Putin has made his task of holding onto power in the medium run more difficult. Business elites, both in and outside his circle, will resent the new instability and isolation the Crimean operation has created. The Russian stock market fell almost 13% on the first day after the invasion, and the Central Bank had to raise interest rates to stanch decline in the ruble. Support for any intervention with economic and human costs is likely to drain away fast. 
Yet, the information filter around Putin will make it hard for him to evaluate what is going on. Rather than recognizing his own mistakes, he will tend to believe stories of betrayal and external hostility. Unless the dissonance rises to such a level that it provokes a major rethink -- and he proves flexible enough to question his own action -- he is likely to continue miscalculating as the crisis unfolds. 
Russia's military occupation of Ukrainian territory on the Crimean peninsula constitutes a blatant violation of the commitments that Moscow undertook in the 1994 Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances for Ukraine. The United States and United Kingdom, the other two signatories, now have an obligation to support Ukraine and penalize Russia.
When the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, Ukraine found itself holding the world's third largest nuclear arsenal, including some 1,900 strategic nuclear warheads that had been designed to attack the United States.  Working in a trilateral dialogue with Ukrainian and Russian negotiators, American diplomats helped to broker a deal Xthe January 1994 Trilateral Statement X under which Ukraine agreed to transfer all of the strategic nuclear warheads to Russia for elimination and to dismantle all of the strategic delivery systems on its territory.
Kiev did this on the condition that it receive security guarantees or assurances.  The Budapest Memorandum, signed on December 5, 1994, by the leaders of Ukraine, Russia, the United States and the United Kingdom (the latter three being the depositary states of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, that is, the states that receive the accession documents of other countries that join the treaty) ) laid out a set of assurances for Ukraine. These included commitments to respect Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and existing borders; to refrain from the threat or use of force against Ukraine's territorial integrity and independence; and to refrain from economic coercion against Ukraine.
The memorandum bundled together a set of assurances that Ukraine already held from the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) Final Act, United Nations Charter and Non-Proliferation Treaty.  The Ukrainian government nevertheless found it politically valuable to have these assurances in a Ukraine-specific document.
Words matter, and a big question at the time arose over whether to use the term "guarantees" or "assurances" in the memorandum.  The United States provides guarantees to allies, such as NATO member states; the term implies a military commitment.  In the early 1990s, neither the George H. W. Bush administration nor the Clinton administration was prepared to extend a military commitment to UkraineX and both felt that, even if they wanted to, the Senate would not produce the needed two-thirds vote for consent to ratification of such a treaty.
The Budapest Memorandum thus was negotiated as a political agreement.  It refers to assurances, not defined, but less than a military guarantee.  U.S. negotiators Xmyself among them X discussed this point in detail with Ukrainian counterparts so that there would be no misunderstanding.
What is taking place today in Crimea can only be described as a Russian military occupation. The Russian Black Sea Fleet and its associated units have had bases in Crimea since 1991, by agreement with Ukraine.  But the agreement does not allow for the Russian military, which has poured thousands of additional troops onto the peninsula over the past several days, to take control of Crimea.
These Russian actions are in blatant violation of the Budapest Memorandum, as well as Russia's commitments under the CSCE Final Act and a 1997 bilateral Ukraine-Russia treaty.  As signatories, the United States and United Kingdom have an obligation to respond, even if they are not obligated to respond with military force. 
Washington and London should act in two ways.  First, they should work with other European Union member states to support Ukraine.  That means political engagement, such as Secretary of State John Kerry's visit today to Kiev.  They should also assemble a financial package with the International Monetary Fund to extend credits to Ukraine.  That can give the country some breathing room as it undertakes critical reforms to put its economic house in order.
Second, Washington and London should work with the European Union and others to impose political, diplomatic and economic sanctions on Moscow unless and until Russia ceases its violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity.  This has begun.  On Sunday, the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, Canada and Japan announced they were suspending preparations to take part in the G8 summit to be hosted in June in Sochi by Russian President Vladimir Putin.  Other steps have been taken, and still others are being planned.
The West should aim to impose significant costs on Russia that will lead Putin to rethink his actions.  That likely will prove difficult, but there can be no business as usual with Moscow.
A strong response is important for settling Ukraine's current crisis.  It also matters for the cause of nuclear nonproliferation.  Security assurances were key to bringing Kiev to agree to get rid of its nuclear arms.  If Washington and London do not stand by the Budapest Memorandum now, it would discredit the idea of such assurances.  That would be unfortunate, as security assurances could play a role in defusing nuclear proliferation cases, such as Iran.
President Barack Obama's strategy for the Ukraine crisis reflects his internationalist foreign policy while adhering to the age-old maxim that money talks.
He sent Secretary of State John Kerry to Kiev on Tuesday to forcefully condemn Russia for seizing effective military control of the Crimea region.
At the same time, Kerry announced $1 billion in loan guarantees to help insulate the Ukrainian economy from the effects of reduced energy subsidies from Russia.
It all is part of the still simmering breakup of the old Soviet Union more than two decades ago, with Russian President Vladimir Putin seeking to maintain Russia's influence and economic ties in a region being wooed by the European Union and Washington for increased trade and other links.
On Tuesday, both Obama and Kerry warned Putin of possible international sanctions and other steps to isolate Russia diplomatically and economically if he escalates the Ukraine crisis by sending in more troops.
The goal of such an approach would be to hit Putin where it hurts by weakening the ruble and Russia's economy while avoiding the possibility of igniting an already volatile crisis to a new level of confrontation and possible violence.
"It is diplomacy and respect for sovereignty, not unilateral force, that can best solve disputes like this in the 21st century," Kerry told reporters to wrap up his one-day stop in Ukraine's capital. "President Obama and I want to make it clear to Russia and to everybody in the world that we are not seeking confrontation."
However, he continued, "if Russia does not choose to de-escalate, if it is not willing to work directly with the government of Ukraine, as we hope they will be, then our partners will have absolutely no choice but to join us to continue to expand upon steps we have taken in recent days in order to isolate Russia politically, diplomatically and economically."
One possible move, hinted at by Kerry, would be to kick Russia out of the G8 group of industrial powers that also includes the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Canada. Those nations already are skipping a preparatory meeting for the next G8 summit set to be hosted by Putin in June in Sochi.
"It is not appropriate to invade a country and, at the end of a barrel of a gun, dictate what you are trying to achieve," Kerry said. "That is not 21st century G8, major nation behavior."
The United States "will stand by the Ukrainian people," he said after accusing Russia of making up reasons for further military intervention in Ukraine based on alleged persecution of Russian speakers and native Russians.
"Not a single piece of credible evidence supports any one of these claims," he said, adding that it was clear "that Russia has been working hard to create a pretext to invade further."
Told by a reporter that Putin had earlier indicated no Russian troops were in Crimea, Kerry shook his head with disbelief and asked: "He really denied there were troops in Crimea?"
A U.S. official familiar with the latest administration assessment said Tuesday that national security agencies believe Putin will decide in the next few days whether to send more troops into Ukraine. According to the official, the diplomatic pressure by Obama and Kerry sought to influence Putin's decision.
In remarks Tuesday, Obama said Putin realized that the United States and its European allies consider the Russian military buildup in Ukraine a violation of international law.
"There have been some reports that President Putin is pausing for a moment and reflecting on what's happened," Obama said.
"I know President Putin seems to have a different set of lawyers making a different set of interpretations but I don't think that's fooling anybody," Obama continued. "I think everybody recognizes that although Russia has legitimate interests in what happens in a neighboring state, that does not give it the right to use force as a means of exerting influence inside of that state."
In another sign of increasing pressure on Putin, a Chinese government statement Tuesday quoted President Xi Jinping as calling for a diplomatic solution.
"The situation is highly complicated and sensitive, affecting both regional and entire global situations," said the statement attributed to Xi. "I believe Russia can coordinate with all sides, use political means to resolve the issue, and maintain peace and stability for the region and the world. China supports conciliatory measures from the international community that help mitigate the situation."
No one calls for a U.S. military response in Ukraine, and polls show strong public opposition to the United States assuming the role of global policeman by taking the lead in international conflicts.
During his presidency, Obama has sought a more international approach to crises, as exemplified by the NATO coalition that imposed a "no-fly" zone on Libya with logistical help from the United States.
However, his inability to build an international coalition to attack Syria for its use of chemical weapons resulted in criticism that Obama failed to fulfill his earlier threat to act.
Hawkish U.S. politicians want a more robust response by the Obama administration to the Russian aggression, calling for tough economic sanctions and reviving plans to build a missile-defense shield in Poland that Putin opposed.
Republican Rep. Ed Royce of California, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, called for pursuing aggressive sanctions that would undermine the ruble and Russia's state-owned banks.
"We should do it, frankly," he told CNN, but adding that Russia should be offered an "exit ramp" out of the crisis through negotiations.
Jim Walsh, an international security analyst with the MIT Security Studies Program, told CNN that any sanctions must be in concert with European allies to be effective. So far, Walsh noted, there has been little sign of support from key allies Britain and Germany for tough economic sanctions against Russia.
Meanwhile, House Speaker John Boehner called for Obama to speed up government approval of U.S. natural gas exports to the Ukraine.
"We should not force our allies to remain dependent on Putin for their energy needs," Boehner said, describing the current approval process as a "de facto ban."
"Expediting approval of natural gas exports is one clear step the U.S. can take to stand by our allies and stand up to Russian aggression, while creating American jobs at the same time," he said.
To Obama and his supporters pursuing what they consider to be a 21st Century world order, the Russian military moves would arouse the suspicions of other countries in the region.
"If anything, it will push many countries further away from Russia," Obama said. "There is the ability for Ukraine to be a friend of the West and a friend of Russia's as long as none of us are in Ukraine trying to meddle and intervene, certainly not militarily, with decisions that properly belong to the Ukrainian people."
The loan guarantees announced Tuesday will help Ukraine move forward with an assistance package from the International Monetary Fund, which is calling for the country to raise energy prices.
Obama administration officials traveling with Kerry said Treasury Department technical advisers would travel to Ukraine to help its national bank and finance ministry deal with economic challenges and implement energy sector reforms.
The United States also will train observers for the May 25 elections, and is sending a team of experts to help identify stolen assets and support anti-corruption measures.
With Ukraine looking to reduce dependence on Russian energy, the United States also will provide assistance and financing to help businesses find new export markets and will offer technical advice to the government on Ukraine's World Trade Organization rights with respect to Russia.
Obama and Kerry both urged Russia to pull its forces back into their barracks and agree to international observers in Ukraine to monitor the situation. 
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, a regional security bloc, sent in 10 monitors Monday, and Kerry called for a larger mission.
"These are the people who could actually identify legitimate threats, and we are asking, together with the government of Ukraine, together with the European community, for large numbers of observers to be able to come in here and monitor the situation and be the arbiters of truth versus fiction," he said, alluding to the Russian claims of persecution.
World leaders and world markets have been weighing in forcefully about what's happening in Crimea.
It's clear how U.S. officials feel (they're outraged) about Russia's military activities in Ukraine's Crimea region and along the border between the two neighbors. Here's what others are saying or doing:
A neighbor and often an ally of Russia, China is distancing itself from Russia's troop movements.
"It is China's long-standing position not to interfere in others' internal affairs," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Qin Gang said. "We respect the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine."
"There are reasons for why the situation in Ukraine is what it is today," Qin said.
Qin didn't elaborate on that point, but earlier in his statement, Qin spoke of Ukraine and said China condemns "the recent extreme and violent acts there and have been urging the relevant parties in Ukraine to resolve their internal disputes peacefully within the legal framework so as to safeguard the lawful rights and interests of all ethnic communities in Ukraine and restore normal social order at an early date."
Earlier this week, the world's investment leaders sent global markets into nosedive out of fears of a military conflict between Russia and Ukraine.
Traders dumped the Russian currency, sending the ruble down more than 10% so far this year.
But on Tuesday, when Russian President Vladimir Putin said his country won't make a claim to Crimea, global markets rebounded, the ruble improved, and Russia's main stock index, the Micex, rose 6% after falling 11% a day earlier.
"There has been a distinct change in the tone of the markets today as the Russian-Ukraine crisis stabilizes. The latest headlines suggest that Putin has had a change of heart," Kathleen Brooks, a research director at FOREX.com, told CNN Money. "Putin is still trying to save some face after this situation dramatically backfired on him."
"The situation in Ukraine is far from off the radar and remains a potent wild card," said Ilya Spivak, a currency strategist at DailyFX. "Deeper escalation of tensions remains a clear possibility."
Chancellor Angela Merkel was so concerned about the rising tension in the Crimean peninsula that she and Putin held a conversation, and in it, she proposed a "fact-finding mission" to Ukraine and a political dialogue.
The mission may be carried out under the leadership of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), according to statement from the chancellor's office.
On Tuesday, the German publication Spiegel Online portrayed Germany as "playing a central role in communications with Russian President Vladimir Putin. But the international community has doubts that Chancellor Angela Merkel can pull it off," the news outlet said.
Spiegel quoted Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier as saying that "Europe is, without a doubt, in its most serious crisis since the fall of the Berlin Wall.
"Twenty-five years after the end of the conflict between the blocs, there's a new, real danger that Europe will split once again," Steinmeier said, according to Spiegel.
European nations at Monday's meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council have called upon Russia to stand down in the Crimea and return its forces immediately "to the areas of their permanent stationing," U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague said in a statement to the House of Commons on Tuesday.
The European Union will take up the crisis at a meeting Thursday and "will decide about consequences for relations between the EU and Russia -- such as suspending bilateral talks with Russia on visa matters, and considering targeted measures" -- if Russia doesn't begin "de-escalating steps," Hague said.
British Prime Minister David Cameron and U.S. President Barack Obama are of like mind about Russia's military exercises in relation to Ukraine: "There must be significant costs to Russia if it does not change course on Ukraine," Hague said.
The UK government has "condemned Russia's military intervention in Ukraine and warned against any further escalation," Hague added.
Ulrich Speck, a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Europe think tank in Brussels, contended in a CNN Opinion column that Putin is trying to build an empire that Speck labeled a "Soviet Union lite" -- "a ring of countries under Moscow's control, with the goal of boosting Russia's geopolitical standing," Speck wrote.
Russian and American leaders paint starkly different pictures of Ukraine, blaming each other for a crisis that shows no signs of simmering down.
A defiant Russian President Vladimir Putin said Tuesday that masked gunmen are fueling anarchy in Ukraine. He decried what he called an illegitimate government that illegally seized power in a coup with U.S. backing, arguing that his country has a right to use military force.
U.S. President Barack Obama and his country's top diplomat said Ukraine's new government is democratically responding to the people's will. They warned of invading forces and a desperate Russia breaking international law.
"President Putin seems to have a different set of lawyers making a different set of interpretations," Obama said, "but I don't think that's fooling anybody."
Putin blamed Western powers, particularly the United States, for causing what he called "anarchy and armed coup" in Ukraine.
"I have a feeling people in America sit in some lab doing experiments, like on rats," he said, "without knowing consequences."
The conflicting descriptions are enough to give you whiplash. Ukraine's shaky new government is caught in the middle, and it's clear that world powers don't see eye to eye over basic facts about what's happening.
Here are some of the questions at play, with a look at how key players are weighing in:
Putin described a country in chaos. "Military men are walking around Kiev in masks still now. They wanted to humiliate someone or show their force," he said. "I think this is very stupid."
The streets in Kiev are "calm and friendly," U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said, and Ukrainian soldiers in Crimea have "stood their ground but never fired a shot, never issued one provocation, have been surrounded by an invading group of troops."
In Crimea, the situation is calm but tense, CNN's Ben Wedeman and Clare Sebastian report. Russian forces have surrounded 10 Ukrainian military bases. There's been no fighting -- or loss of life -- but there are ample signs of preparation.
There's a "war of information" in the region "between those who watch Russian state TV and those who are getting their news from the West, none of them listening to the calls from Kiev for unity in this country," CNN's Diana Magnay reported.
In Kiev, there are still barricades and battle scars from recent fighting before Viktor Yanukovych's ouster, CNN's Anderson Cooper and Elise Labott reported. Protesters there are waving posters depicting caricatures of Putin and declaring their willingness to fight against Russian forces, if necessary.
Viktor Yanukovych remains Ukraine's elected leader, and Ukraine's new government is illegitimate. 
"The legitimate president is only Yanukovych," Putin said. "There are just three ways to dismiss the president from power: death, his personal request and the third one, impeachment. ... This procedure was not followed."
Yanukovych abandoned his post last month, refused to sign a transition deal, fled the country and was then voted out of office by Ukraine's democratically elected parliament.
"He broke his obligation to sign that agreement and he fled into the night with his possessions, destroying papers behind him," Kerry said in Kiev on Tuesday. "He abandoned his people and eventually his country."
Ukraine has a legitimate government and is set to have new presidential elections on May 25.
"Let's give an opportunity for that to work," Ukrainian Ambassador to the U.N. Yuriy Sergeyev said.
But not everyone in the country agrees. Some support having closer ties with Russia. 
Yanukovych, for his part, said in a news conference from Russia last week that the planned May 25 elections would be illegal, insisting that he was still in charge and wanted to lead his country to peace, harmony and prosperity.
Part of the Russian Navy is based in Crimea, but Putin hasn't acknowledged sending any additional troops to Ukraine. He told reporters Tuesday that the surge in forces in Crimea were local self-defense groups pushing for the will of the people to be respected. Asked whether they were Russian, he said the uniforms the troops are wearing could be purchased at a store.
Kerry sounded shocked by Putin's explanation Tuesday. Putin, he said, "is insisting against all evidence everywhere in the world about troops being in Crimea that they're not there." 
Russian forces "have complete operational control of the Crimean peninsula," a senior U.S. administration official told CNN on Sunday, with estimates of 6,000 Russian ground and naval forces in the region
Russia has sent military ships, helicopters and cargo planes to deploy 16,000 troops into Crimea since February 24, Sergeyev told the United Nations on Monday. 
Yes. A treaty between the neighboring nations allows Russia to have up to 25,000 troops in Crimea, Russia's U.N. envoy said Monday, adding that Yanukovych asked Russia to send military forces. Putin said Russia has no plans to take over Crimea.
"If I take the decision to use military force, it will be completely legitimate and correspond to the international law," Putin said, "because we have the request of the legitimate president and also (it) corresponds to our duties and corresponds to our interest in protecting the people who are close to us historically and have connected culturally."
United States' take: No, and Putin is playing a dangerous game. Obama said Tuesday that the Russian President doesn't have the right to use force to influence the neighboring country.
Russia "has chosen aggression and intimidation as a first resort," Kerry said Tuesday, accusing the country's government of "hiding its hand behind falsehoods, intimidation and provocations."
No. Russian troops amassing in Crimea and near the border with Ukraine are an "act of aggression."
Parliament approved Putin's use of military force to protect Russian citizens inside Ukraine.
"This corresponds to our national interest to protect these people, and this is a humanitarian mission. We are not trying to enslave people, or dictate anything to anyone," Putin said. "Of course, we can't stay aside if we see the people persecuted, bullied or killed. We very much hope it will not come to this."
Putin, the administration believes, is threatened by challenges to his influence, especially popular uprisings against governments that are supportive of the Russian leader, a senior Obama administration official said Tuesday.
There's no evidence of any threat to Russians inside Ukraine. Russia wants to annex Crimea. 
Lots of stern-faced Western politicians and so-called experts have been asking: what is Russian President Vladimir Putin's endgame in Ukraine? 
The presence of Russian troops in Crimea has sent alarm bells ringing in Western capitals, with some people predicting that it is basically a prelude to a full-blown invasion of predominantly Russian speaking eastern parts of the country, with Russian tanks rolling in. Calls were also made for the "world community," whatever that means these days, to punish Russia economically and diplomatically, although no one is talking about any military response.
Very hard to see though how Western countries can exert serious economic pressure on Russia, considering the state of their economies and possible huge losses they will incur. Symbolically, yes, they can, say, cancel some business conferences and maybe even refuse to sign a deal or two. But that would be all. We have already found out the British government is not considering any military options or trade sanctions after a cunning cameramen picked up an official carrying a policy document near 10 Downing Street, zooming in on the relevant paragraph.
Although, as a former Kremlin adviser, I can tell you that such things don't happen by accident and usually have all to do with sending out a signal to those who are watching carefully. Other countries have also signaled their lack of any desire to resort to sanctions.
U.S. President Barack Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry have been warning Russia about costs and punishments, if it does not withdraw its troops back to the Black Sea naval base in Sevastopol. The White House has been saying that economic sanctions against Russia are in the making and that all military programs between the two countries are on hold. Other suggested punishments being looked at include boycotting the G8 summits in Sochi in June and even banning Russia altogether from this gathering, which, incidentally, has been losing its relevance in the past decade or so. I mean, who is going to treat seriously the supposed group of the biggest industrial nations if it doesn't include China and India but has Canada and Italy in it, no offence to these two great nations.
The thing about the crisis in Ukraine is that the West has greatly misjudged the way Russia would respond to the possibility of its neighbor sliding into chaos and anarchy, with the so-called interim unity government in Kiev failing to establish its authority in the east and south of the country. Not to mention that the children of the Orange revolution of 2004, which, by the way, eventually ended in tears for most of them, have swallowed more than they can chew when they toppled President Viktor Yanukovich, and then made a crucial mistake of making all the wrong noises from day one, demonstrating open hostility to Russia and to the ethnic Russians living in Ukraine. 
And when the dust began to settle in Kiev and news emerged that out of the 98 people who died, at least 16 were police officers, the image of a glorious people's revolution somehow lost its initial appeal. 
And with the failed attempts by some extremists to spread the influence of the interim government to the east and south, using intimidation and violence, it became clear that a prospect of a civil war looked very real indeed.
So here's the deal then: as Ukraine was slipping into anarchy and chaos, with all sorts of radicals causing mayhem, President Putin's endgame became obvious. He needed to do anything in his power to prevent Ukraine from becoming another Iraq, with a possibility of a civil war breaking out and violence spreading to Russia at some point. 
We should learn the lessons of Iraq where the delicate balance, which had existed there before the U.S.-led invasion of 2003, was undermined and no one now knows how to resolve it. The same outcome happened as a result of the so-called revolution in Kiev that has now opened up old wounds and awoken historical animosities that had been kept in check.         
So Putin has chosen to use the 25,000 Russian troops based at Sevastopol, reinforcing them with another 16,000 soldiers, to prevent clashes between radicals on all sides erupting and provide stability in Crimea where about 60% of the population are ethnic Russians. Without a shot being fired, so unlike the rest of the country, law and order have been established. All the Ukrainian military installations in Crimes were surrounded by Russian troops with one purpose: to prevent undesirables arming themselves, like it happened in Lviv and some other cities, with disastrous circumstances. Up to now the plan has worked. 
But any suggestions that the Kremlin is actually ready to start a full-blown invasion of Ukraine are way, way off the mark. This would be very dangerous for Russia itself, considering it close links with Ukraine on all levels. So the hysteria surrounding the Russian involvement in Crimea at the moment is either caused by ignorance or is a result of the deep suspicions that the West still has about Russia, Cold War or no Cold War. 
A sudden regime change that has happened in Ukraine could never result in a swift and peaceful resolution. We saw that during the Arab Spring and, less recently, in the fall of Communism in Eastern Europe. That is why all sides in the Ukrainian crisis need to keep a cool head and refrain from one-sided propaganda and provocative, inflammatory statements. If one thing that we have learned for history it's that it doesn't take a lot for a big war to erupt in Europe, dragging the rest of the world in it.
As Russia continues its military occupation of the Crimean district of Ukraine, as Putin enunciates a doctrine of military intervention in support of ethnic brethren, and the West ponders what might be done, Europeans begin to think again about the 1930s and the origins of World War II. The Russian historian Andrei Zubov, for example, has published a sophisticated comparison between Putin's seizure of Crimea and Adolf Hitler's annexation of Austria, seeing both as the beginning of a chain of events with fatal consequences not just for the subjects of the aggression but for the aggressors themselves.
In Vienna, where I live, one also hears constant mentions of 1938. Austrians and other citizens of European Union countries are beginning to consider what the end of Ukraine might mean for their own European system. The point is not that Putin is like Hitler; the point is that the removal of a state from Europe has consequences for the continent.  
When we consider any state in isolation from the system, it can seem fragile, new, perhaps unnecessary. Ukraine today, like Austria in the 1930s, is a creation of a dramatic change in the world order. Austria as an independent republic owed its existence to World War I, just as Ukraine as an independent republic owes its existence to the unexpected collapse of the Soviet Union. Independent Austria lasted for two decades; independent Ukraine has existed for only slightly longer. For some, an artificial creation that had no right to exist; for others home to a people indistinguishable from Germans, Austria had few friends in 1938. Ukraine finds itself in much the same position today. Just as most European leaders were happy to accept the German idea that Austria had no right to exist, many people around the West seem ready to forget about Ukraine or to believe the Kremlin's propaganda that half of the country is Russian. 
Yet the reasons why states are supposed to exist are general, transcending their particular histories. The principles of international law are not subject to particular claims about identities. As with Putin today in Ukraine, Hitler in 1938 in Austria based his claim on the need to protect fellow ethnics. It is easy to criticize Putin's arguments in some important details. He claims to be defending Russian citizens. But since dual citizenship in Ukraine is illegal, the most visible of Russian citizens in Ukraine are (1) the Russian soldiers and sailors based in Sevastopol, (2) the Russian soldiers who have just invaded southern Ukraine and (3) Ukrainian riot police who are being given Russian citizenship at the Russian consulate in Simferopol to reward them for beating Ukrainian protesters. Putin claims to be defending "compatriots," but that is a category that has no meaning. The suggestion is that anyone who speaks Russian needs a Russian invasion; that would mean that since I am writing in English I need an English invasion.
But the real problem goes much deeper. In both cases the claim of a right of protection of ethnic brethren was only one element of a larger worldview. Hitler in fact cared little for ethnic Germans in Austria or for Austria itself. Its destruction of Austria was meant to show, as it did, that all standards of the European system were subject to corruption if a single man took a single risk.
What Europeans decide to see in the Ukrainian revolution might in the end define Europe. The interwar European system was based on the principle of state sovereignty. No doubt this was an imperfect and incomplete moral and legal basis for international relations. And yet its violation meant the end of the system itself. When Europe's leaders abandoned Austria in 1938, they were conceding to Hitler the right to define the new rules of the new order. The immediate consequences were clear enough. Without the protection of a state, Austria's Jewish minority was subject to anti-Semitic violence. Once Austria had been abandoned, European leaders had little trouble betraying a country that truly deserved their support, democratic Czechoslovakia. Its dismemberment began later that same year. Once Europeans had the experience of allowing states to die they could do so again. By the time the great powers came to their senses in 1939 it was too late.
The European system of today is based on the principle of state sovereignty, combined with the robust international cooperation of the European Union, and legitimated by a historically new attention to human rights. The European Union is based on the premise of learning from history. National Socialism and Stalinism are seen as experiences from which Europeans have learned and extremes to which European politics must be restrained.  
This system, like the interwar system, is vulnerable to challenge. Russia has now proposed an alternative, in which Russian culture is historically unique and demanding of protection, European fascism and Stalinism are a trove of constructive ideas, and human rights are nothing more than a facade for western imperialism. Russian propaganda assigns a particular importance to sexual minorities, with many prominent commentators claiming for example that many in the EU are part of an international gay conspiracy. 
The Russian invasion of southern Ukraine is a threat above all to the citizens of Ukraine. As Professor Zubov has argued, it has threatening implications also for Russians. This was a courageous argument for him to make -- he says he was immediately fired from his position.  
Europeans who face fewer risks can continue the argument. The seizure of Crimea was meant as a challenge to the European Union. It is meant to prove that European values cannot defend themselves.  
In the wake of Russia's invasion of Crimea, the mood here Tuesday was tense, but the streets appeared eerily calm.
Ukraine's Crimea region has become the flashpoint in a geopolitical crisis that has embroiled London, Washington, the United Nations and NATO. 
In the days since they crossed the border into this strategically important peninsula on the Black Sea, Russian forces have surrounded 10 Ukrainian military bases -- 16,000 troops in the past week, according to Ukrainian officials.
There has been no fighting -- or loss of life -- but there were ample signs of preparation.
The situation in Simferopol, Crimea's regional capital, is almost surreal. Rumor, confusion and outlandish claims mix freely -- and reality is difficult to pin down. On the surface, the capital seems undisturbed. Shops are open, people sit in cafes, the buses and trams are running normally.
And then there are pockets -- especially around the parliament and other Crimean government buildings -- where the discord hangs in the air.
These places have moved firmly into the pro-Russian camp, where the Russian and Crimean flags are flying and the yellow-and-blue flag of Ukraine is not. Knots of men, most of them burly, middle-aged and chain-smoking, gather outside the buildings recently taken over by pro-Russian parties. They say they are defending the rights of Russians in a country led by people they see as ultranationalist Ukrainians. They say they relish the prospect of a referendum this month that could see Crimea "decoupled" from Ukraine.
On the streets appears a truckload of men in uniform, not Ukrainian, for sure, but not identifiably Russian. They are close to Ukrainian military compounds, where troops remain inside, largely out of sight.
Similar standoffs are playing out around barracks and bases in far-flung corners of Crimea. Here, there has been no violence. Instead, the hint of camaraderie among fellow soldiers can be discerned.
But among Ukrainians and Tatars, a predominantly Muslim group, living here, there is a sense of foreboding, one that most of them are reluctant to express. There are no pro-Kiev demonstrations, perhaps for fear of the consequences. And so people go on living their lives as best they can, waiting anxiously for what comes next.
On Tuesday, about 12 miles (20 kilometers) southeast of Simferopol, about 100 Russian soldiers at a Ukrainian military base were digging in against a backdrop of rolling hills. They parked their troop-moving vehicles, excavated a series of mini trenches in the dirt and erected mess tents.
Apparently oblivious to the international tensions over Russia's moves, they were carrying on civil conversations with Ukrainian soldiers and moving about freely.
It all appeared fairly friendly. The Russian soldiers treated their presence as nothing special, even as it made nearby residents uncomfortable.
A supporter of the Ukrainian forces had driven all the way from Yalta to offer food.
"I'm Russian and I want to say I don't need any protection from any brother nation or anyone else on my land.  We will solve our problems through talks not fights," the man told CNN.
Blocking food deliveries at the gate was a pro-Russian "self-defense" group, which hopes a referendum will split Crimea from Ukraine.
"It will mean either we have full autonomy or we disconnect from Ukraine and join fully with Russia. That can only be positive," said Sergei Golovko, a member of the group.
Much of the tension here stems from generations of heritage and tradition. Ethnic Russians have lived in Crimea for centuries, and many of the current generation look upon Moscow's forces as friendly protectors.
That view may not be shared by many of those Crimean residents with Ukrainian roots.
This unease manifests itself in small ways. On one side, wives of Ukrainian soldiers complained it would be difficult for their husbands to swear allegiance to pro-Russian leadership when they had already done so to Kiev. On the other, residents sometimes approached Russian soldiers and shook their hands -- slapping them on the back in signs of support.
The Russian soldiers seemed to be trying to keep it low-key. Their uniforms bore no Russian army insignia that might inflame anti-Russian Ukrainians.
But forces remained poised to react to the slightest provocation. As more than 100 unarmed Ukrainian soldiers tried Tuesday morning to return to Belbek Air Base, a Ukrainian military base north of Sevastopol, Russian forces fired warning shots over their heads.
Video shot by one of the Ukrainian soldiers showed the Ukrainians continuing to move forward. In the video, a Russian, holding his weapon, orders them to halt their advance: "I have orders; I will shoot you in the legs if you come any further."
The Ukrainian commander responded that they had no weapons and that the Russians were in control.
The two sides then negotiated, and 15 of the Ukrainian soldiers were granted passage onto the base.
The commander told CNN he had been ordered to surrender the base by noon, but the deadline passed without incident.
He said he had been told to sign a document swearing allegiance to the local government, but he was unwilling to do so and continued to take orders from Kiev.
On the road to the base, pro-Russian civilians blocked the entrance to journalists. On the other side of a barricade stood Ukrainian soldiers. Beyond them, at the main entrance to the base, were Russian soldiers, CNN was told.
The commander said he had tried to speak through an intermediary with the Russian forces to arrange a meeting to defuse the situation but had not succeeded.
The base's structure complicated the situation -- it is home not only to Ukrainian service members but also to their families.
And even the source of much of the tension was uncertain. One Ukrainian military commander said he had received anonymous phone calls threatening him and his family if he did not surrender to Russian forces.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has yet to acknowledge the forces here are even Russian, but a commander of troops -- who are wearing Russian uniforms without identifying insignia and driving vehicles bearing Russian plates -- was frank. He told CNN he came from a Russian city near Crimea and had been dispatched by his commanding officer from Sevastopol to a ferry port on the eastern side of the Crimean peninsula.
The mood was different hundreds of miles away in Ukraine's capital of Kiev, which is more European in its location and self-image. Protesters waved posters depicting caricatures of Putin and declared their willingness to fight against Russian forces, if necessary.
The newly installed, pro-European interim central government is shaky, at best. Ousted President Viktor Yanukovych fled more than a week ago in the wake of protests in Kiev's Independence Square, where snipers from nearby rooftops killed scores of demonstrators.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry arrived Tuesday in Kiev and surveyed a makeshift memorial to the dead before meeting with the Ukrainian interim administration about the Russian incursion and a promised $1 billion in U.S. loan guarantees to help the country rebuild its shattered economy.
Flowers and flags marked the spot of the killings. One person left a poem that read, "Mother, I'm sorry I had to go. I was shot by the police because I couldn't turn back."
An acting president and an acting prime minister have taken the reins of power.
A crisis in Crimea is the last thing the new government needs or residents want.
"The amount of propaganda Russia has poured onto Ukraine is hard to comprehend," said Maia Mikhaluk, a freelance photographer and Christian ministry worker in Ukraine. "Putting troops on Ukrainian land is going to bring the very opposite result from what Putin expected: I believe it's uniting Ukraine."
Russian state-run TV offered a different view, blaming the crisis on far-right radicals aided by the West.
Russian news reports note that Ukrainians had called for a ban on teaching the Russian language in schools. That proposed ban has been rescinded, but the reports created an emotional reaction among Russians.
The tense, high-stakes standoff between Ukraine and Russia continued Tuesday, with both sides insisting they don't want war but publicly offering little evidence of their willingness to budge.
Petro Poroshenko, a Ukrainian parliamentarian who has been charged with leading negotiations with the new government of Crimea -- a disputed region thought to be threatened by a Russian takeover -- told CNN's Christiane Amanpour that "today we (had) the first sign of contact between our minister of defense and Russia's minister of defense," as well as talks involving other ministers.
"But it is not a negotiation, unfortunately," said Poroshenko, a billionaire businessman and former Ukrainian foreign minister. "We try to do our best to use any opportunity for peaceful negotiation. But ... we don't have any sign of hope ... from the Russian side."
The comments are the latest indicating Ukrainian officials' attempts to peacefully prevent a full-scale war over the Crimean peninsula, which had been part of Russia until it was ceded to Ukraine in 1954 by Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev.
Yuriy Sergeyev, Ukraine's U.N. ambassador, claimed Russia used planes, boats and helicopters to flood the peninsula with 16,000 troops. And Ukrainian officials say disguised Russian troops have laid siege to military installations.
Yet Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday denied sending members of his military into Crimea or that any of the up to 25,000 Russian troops already stationed in the country had any role in the standoff, according to the state-run RIA Novosti news agency. He insisted his military isn't planning to seize the Crimean peninsula -- but didn't close the door on action "to protect local people." 
Should Russian troops intervene, Putin said, "It will be legitimate and correspond to international law because we have a direct request from a legitimate president and it corresponds to our interests in protecting people who are close to us."
Poroshenko said ousted Ukraine President Viktor Yanukovych, who fled to Russia last week after months of public unrest against his government that ultimately boiled over into violence, has no legitimacy.
That includes having no right to ask Russia to send troops into Ukraine to restore him to what he feels is his rightful post as President, according to Poroshenko, who insisted only Parliament can invite foreign troops.
"His (political tenure) is finished, and he is a criminal," said Poroshenko, "especially after yesterday's appeal to have foreign troops come here and start a war."
While no blood has been spilled between the Ukrainian and Russian militaries, no one is breathing easy -- especially amid reports of Ukrainian military facilities in Crimea being under siege.
On Sunday, a U.S. official said Russian forces have "complete operational control" of Crimea. And Putin said Tuesday "local militias" -- who, he insisted, don't answer to Moscow -- control up to 22,000 Ukrainian army troops and their heavy military equipment.
Poroshenko, the Ukrainian official, said that while military units have been "blocked," they have not relinquished control. "Our soldiers (are) demonstrating a strong spirit," he added, commending them for not opening fire.
Several hundred men wearing dark green camouflage uniforms without insignias surrounded Ukraine's Perevalnoye base Sunday near the Crimean capital of Simferopol. But rather than the standoff, they walked peacefully near 15 Ukrainian troops standing guard.
By Tuesday, the situation remained tense, and the base was still surrounded. But the base commander moved in and out, and troops outside weren't stopping anyone.
But not every scene was so calm. Video showed more than 100 unarmed Ukrainian troops trying Tuesday morning to return to Belbek air base north of Sevastopol, only to have Russian forces fire warning shots over their heads. 
A Russian voice tells the Ukrainians he has orders to shoot them in the legs if they advance. The Ukrainian commander reports they have no weapons, and the Russians are in control. After some negotiations, 15 Ukrainian troops are let in.
By contrast, about 12 miles (20 kilometers) southeast of Simferopol, about 100 Russian troops on Tuesday parked their vehicles at a Ukrainian military base, excavated mini-trenches and erected mess tents -- all while having civil conversations with Ukrainian troops and moving about freely.
What's happening on the Russian side of the Ukraine border, though, may end up being more significant.
Putin ordered about 150,000 Russian troops who had been taking part in military exercises near the border back to their barracks. But that order didn't involve troops already in Crimea, nor did it reassure Ukraine's new interim leadership based in the capital of Kiev.
Russian troops and vehicles remain near the country's eastern border, according to Ukrainian officials.
Andriy Parubiy, head of Ukraine's National Security and Defense Council, told Parliament that Ukraine doubled its security presence at checkpoints along the border.
Alex Shiroki, from the coastal city of Yalta, said he is worried about being cut off from gas, electricity or the Internet, as well as the prospect of living under Russian rule. But he admits not everyone shares his opinion; even in his own family, one of his sisters wants a plan to get out while another sister sides completely with Russia.
"The worst feeling is that I feel unsure about what will be tomorrow," Shiroki said. "My thoughts are: This won't end fast."
Poroshenko, who is heading Ukraine's efforts to forge a peaceful resolution over Crimea, said his government is "constantly trying to" have conversations with Moscow.
"We think that, without any negotiating ... the escalation process and the temperature on the Crimea is rising up," he added.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is trying to construct what a senior U.S. administration official characterized as an "off-ramp" for Putin by having international observers in Crimea to ensure ethnic Russians' rights aren't violated. President Barack Obama floated this idea in a call Saturday with Putin, and he and Merkel talked about it Tuesday.
NATO members are set to meet Wednesday with Russia's ambassador to the alliance, which gathered in emergency session amid Poland's fears that any potential conflict could spread around the region.
NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said Tuesday that despite repeated calls by the international community, "Russia continues to violate Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and continues to violate its international commitments."
There's no indication yet NATO will intervene militarily, but its members may take action other ways. That includes actions targeting Moscow (like Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper announcing the cancellation of military activities involving his and Russia's militaries), punitive measures like sanctions against Ukrainian individuals or groups or helping prop up that nation's shaky economy.
To that latter point, Ukraine's Parliament ratified a deal Tuesday to receive loans from the European Union worth 610 million euros, the equivalent of nearly $839 million.
Representatives of the International Monetary Fund were headed to the country to begin inspections ahead of a possible financial deal. And U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry has announced a $1 billion loan guarantee for Ukraine.
Kerry visited Kiev on Tuesday, laying flowers in honor of slain protesters at Maidan, or Independence Square, and accusing Russia of making up reasons to intervene militarily.
"Not a single piece of credible evidence" supports Russian explanations for its move into Crimea, said the top U.S. diplomat. He added, "Russia has talked about Russian-speaking citizens being under siege. They're not."
Washington prefers a peaceful resolution to this crisis, Kerry said. But if that doesn't happen -- and Russian steps up its military involvement -- "our partners will have absolutely no choice (but) to join us to continue to expand on steps we have taken in recent days to isolate Russia diplomatically, politically and economically."
"The United States will stand by the Ukrainian people as they build the strong democratic country they deserve," Kerry said. "... We must all step up and answer their call." 
President Barack Obama has said that Russian President Vladimir Putin has violated international law by sending troops into the Crimea.  Law is on Obama's side, which is why Putin is organizing his justification counter-offensive.
The United Nations charter (article 2(4)) prohibits "the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state, or in any other manner inconsistent with the Purposes of the United Nations." Ukrainian lawyers have said there are additional treaties Putin is violating. 
Putin's forces were apparently concerned enough about the U.N prohibition to strip the identifying markers off Russian soldiers before sending them into Crimea, and to now call these troops "local defense forces." But removing their insignias does not change the facts.
Putin's new tactic is to claim that Russia has been invited in. It is illegal to invade another country, but not illegal to send in help when a legitimate government requests it. Putin has asserted that Ukraine's ousted president, Viktor F. Yanukovych, remains the Ukraine's legitimate president, and he has asked for help. Putin may also be behind the influx of protest tourists to Ukraine who pretend they are Ukrainians asking for Russian help. 
There is a long and storied tradition of governments inventing a legal premise to justify their actions.  During the Cold War, President Reagan justified U.S. intervention in Grenada as necessary to protect Americans living on the island.  Reagan also defended U.S. military support in Nicaragua as collective self-defense requested by El Salvador. These claims were just as credible as Putin's claims, which is to say: not very.
Putin cares little whether his actions violate international law. But the Europeans and Americans who will organize a response do care, and ordinary Russians may also care, which is why Putin is working to create the appearance of legal intervention. While only the U.N. Security Council (where Russia holds veto power) can authorize a collective response to Russian aggression, the legal principle of "responsibility to protect" allows individual states and groups of states to legally justify their response to illegal acts of aggression.  
Where might all this lead? The answer depends on who ends up ruling Ukraine. And this is the point. Each side is now wooing its future dance partner: Americans and Europeans are wooing Ukraine's pro-Western political forces, and Putin is stirring fears of ethnic Russians and seeking support for a pro-Russian government.  
An anti-Putin Ukrainian government could try to bring a case to the International Court of Justice over the illegal use of force in Russia's incursion into Crimea. This is the strategy Georgian leaders tried after Russia's last foreign intervention, but the effort failed. Since Russia does not accept the International Court of Justice's general jurisdiction, Georgia instead charged Russia with the illegal use of force, and with violating the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Racial Discrimination, which Russia has ratified. 
The ICJ rejected jurisdiction in the case, however, because without Russia's preconsent the ICJ could not decide claims about illegal force. For the racial discrimination convention, Georgia would have to first try to negotiate with Russia over its disagreements.  Any Ukrainian government would find itself similarly hampered. 
Imagine that an anti-Russian Ukrainian government gained power and actually won its legal suit.  Then what?  In the best-case scenario, Ukraine would win a legal declaration on its side, which might make Russia liable to compensate Ukraine for its losses.  Russia could then refuse to comply, or it could do what the United States did to settle the illegal use of force suit that Nicaragua won in front of the ICJ. Russia could require that Ukraine relinquish its claim if it wants to receive its aid package. And Ukraine would have few options, since ICJ rulings can only be enforced by the Security Council (again, on which Russia holds veto power).  
A more likely scenario is that the issue will never get this far.  Even if an anti-Putin government wins the upcoming election, Ukraine is still too dependent on Russian energy to antagonize it by bringing a legal suit that will achieve so little.
The International Criminal Court is not likely to become involved, in any event, since neither Russia nor Ukraine have ratified the Rome Statute, which would give the International Criminal Court the right to claim jurisdiction over the case. Nor would the Security Council refer the matter to the court. 
The reality is that international law has little to offer right now. This will only be the case, however, as long as Russia does not engage in mass atrocities; these would change the political calculus
Human rights violations can be pursued by Ukraine's new government, or by individuals raising legal claims in front of the European Court of Human Rights, where both Russia and the Ukraine are signatory members. Russia actually has a good record for paying awards ordered by the European Court of Human Rights.  
At this point, international law's largest contribution may be to channel Russia's response. International law is leading Putin to step back from the more overtly illegal strong-arm tactics associated with sending in troops, and he knows that any mass atrocities would provoke a more serious international response. 
International law won't stop an invasion, and in light of the events in Syria, odds are that neither side wants to escalate to the point of mass atrocities.  So international law stands ready on the sidelines, a tool of both sides to justify their actions.  
Here's why the Ukraine crisis won't affect Russia, U.S. space collaboration
On Earth, the United States may be trading bitter accusations with Russia over Ukraine. 
The space collaboration between the two nations has survived other diplomatic kerfuffles. And there's no need to worry, NASA says. 
"We do not expect the current Russia-Ukraine situation to have any impact on our civil space cooperation with Russia, including our partnership on the International Space Station program," said Allard Beutel, a NASA spokesman.
"It is in the best interest of all ISS partners not to allow disruption of operations that have maintained continuous human presence on orbit for over a decade." 
Right now, U.S. astronaut Mike Hopkins is aboard the Space Station with two Russian cosmonauts. He returns home aboard a Russian capsule on Monday. 
A few weeks later, another American astronaut, Steven Swanson, joins another two Russians on a trip to the station aboard another Russian Soyuz craft.
The two nations can't afford temporary tussles to upend a costly relationship -- one that James Oberg, a former space engineer, describes as "reluctant co-dependency."
NASA retired its space shuttle fleet in 2011, and its astronauts have no way to get to and from the station. Russian Soyuz capsules ferry U.S. astronauts and cosmonauts, together with supplies that can fit in the smaller craft.
In turn, the United States brings to the table technology far more advanced than Russia's capabilities, Oberg told Politico. 
At the same time, many of the Russian systems are more reliable because they are simpler and have been operating longer, Leroy Chiao, former NASA astronaut and International Space Station commander, told CNN. 
The space station itself has an intricate blend of both countries' contributions -- from U.S. solar arrays and power systems to Russian core life support systems, to a navigation system that comes from both countries, he said. 
Americans and Russians train on each other's systems, but one country can't run the station alone, he said. 
The mission control centers in Houston and Korolyov, near Moscow, have to coordinate commands sent to the station, he said. 
"We need each other to operate the station," Chiao said. "Otherwise we run the risk of losing that asset."
Russia and the United States have disagreed on various issues in the past --  including most recently, the war in Syria, and Moscow's granting of temporary asylum to NSA leaker Edward Snowden. 
"NASA and its Russian counterpart, Roscosmos, have maintained a professional, beneficial and collegial working relationship through the various ups and downs of the broader U.S.-Russia relationship and we expect that to continue," Beutel said. 
Up in space, the crew members for International Space Station Expedition 38 are going about their regular days. 
When they're not busy conducting experiments, they play with floating food, exercise and document the spinning Earth with scenic pictures of various continents. 
"Checked out our Sokul suits today in preparation for returning to Earth next Monday," Hopkins tweeted this week. "Can't believe it's almost time!" 
Hopkins' crew includes Russians Sergey Ryazanskiy and  Oleg Kotov, the latter a native of Crimea.  
The trio's research focuses on human health and documenting protein crystal growth, which will help researchers come up with new treatment for diseases such as cystic fibrosis.
The three launched in September, and are also studying the effects of extended space travel as NASA and Roscosmos prepare to send  two crew members aboard the space station for a year. 
But it's not all work and no play at the working laboratory orbiting about 240 miles above Earth. 
The crew also gets a chance to gaze at breathtaking sunsets and sunrises that occur every 45 minutes.  
On their regular weekends off, the  international scientists watch movies, play music and cards, and talk to their families. 
According to a new deal NASA signed with the Russian space agency, the United States will pay Russia $71 million to ferry each astronaut to the space station.
The emergence of private companies into the space transport business may change the game.
NASA has a $1.6 billion contract with SpaceX to fly at least 12 cargo resupply missions to the space station, and a $1.9 billion contract with Orbital Sciences for eight such missions.
SpaceX is gearing up for its third commercial resupply mission this month; Orbital Sciences completed its first in February. 
As for transporting astronauts, NASA said in November that it is seeking to partner with U.S. companies for human trips to the station as well, by 2017. That could end U.S. reliance on Russia for space voyages. 
But for now, experts say the U.S.-Russia relationship on space remains a marriage of convenience.
Russia Today, RT for short, is funded by its namesake government, even promoted as a top media source on the foreign ministry's website.
Its own site contains story after story defending and explaining Moscow's take on world crises -- chief among them now, what's unfolding in Ukraine. The Columbia Journalism Review notes it is best "known as an extension of former President Vladimir Putin's confrontational foreign policy."
In other words, it's about the last place you'd expect to hear these words: "What Russia did is wrong."
Yet that is exactly what one of RT's anchors, Abby Martin, said Monday night at the end of her "Breaking the Set" program. Moscow was not her lone target -- she also expressed disappointment over coverage and "disinformation" emanating "from all sides of the media spectrum" -- but it was clearly the most noticeable.
The Telegraph reported -- and Martin herself acknowledged -- that the network told her to go to Crimea, the peninsula on the Black Sea where Russian troops reportedly played a part in besieging Ukrainian military bases in the days after that country's Russian-leaning president was ousted.
"But I am not going to Crimea despite the statement RT has made," Martin tweeted.
Martin is still working for the network, even taking the air again Tuesday night. As RT noted in a statement, Martin called it "kind of a sad commentary that" -- while she's regularly spoken out against military intervention -- "my only criticism of Russia's actions was picked up" by the media.
The network said that Martin "has not been reprimanded" for voicing her opinion, something it said that all "RT journalists and hosts are free to express."
The whole saga has offered an interesting glimpse into the volatile situation in Ukraine, Russian state media and RT, in particular.
The Ukrainian crisis has been brewing since last November, when protesters were angry about then-President Viktor Yanukovych's move away from a European Union trade pact and toward an apparently closer relationship with Moscow. 
Other issues -- including how much control a president should have and his government's treatment of dissenters -- also came into play. Finally, after a few days of violent confrontations between demonstrators and security forces, Yanukovych fled to Russia, and a new pro-Western government took over.
Yuriy Sergeyev, Ukraine's U.N. ambassador, claimed Russia used planes, boats and helicopters to flood the peninsula with 16,000 troops. And Ukrainian officials say disguised Russian troops have laid siege to military installations around the Crimean peninsula.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday denied sending any more of his country's troops into the country, or that any of the up to 25,000 troops who are stationed there have played any part in the standoff, according to the state-run RIA Novosti news agency.
Many don't believe him, including various Western officials and NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen.
And, apparently, Martin -- who touts her art on her website and has surmised the U.S. government was complicit in the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks -- is among them.
In her end-of-show commentary, Martin said she wanted "to say something from my heart about the ongoing political crisis in Ukraine and Russia's military occupation of Crimea."
"I can't stress enough how strongly I am against any state intervention in a sovereign nation's affairs. What Russia did is wrong.
"I admittedly don't know as much as I should about Ukraine's history or the cultural dynamics of the region," she added. "But what I do know is that military intervention is never the answer. And I will not sit here and apologize (for) and defend military aggression."
Martin -- a native Californian and San Diego State University graduate, according to the citizen journalism initiative Media Roots she founded -- prefaced her remarks by saying that, "just because I work here for RT doesn't mean I don't have editorial independence." 
That claim may have been belied by the network reportedly ordering Martin to go to Crimea to "better her knowledge," according to the Telegraph report. 
RT did retweet multiple messages about Martin's rant from Glenn Greenwald -- the former Guardian reporter known most recently for his work revealing the U.S. National Security Agency's spy policies through former government contractor Edward Snowden, who has since been granted asylum in Russia. Among them: "Who was the @AbbyMartin of @RT in the US television media for Iraq? Do we have one for today's wars?"
And video of her statement was still up on RT's website -- alongside stories about the swelling "self-defense forces" in Crimea and Putin saying Russia reserves the "right" to use military force -- well after she gave it.
That includes her last words: "Above all, my heart goes out to the Ukrainian people who are now wedged as pawns in the middle of a global power chess game. They are the real losers here. 
"All we can do know is hope for a peaceful outcome to a terrible situation and prevent another full-blown Cold War between multiple superpowers. Until then, I'll keep telling the truth as I see it."
It's called Godwin's law.  The longer a debate rages, the greater the likelihood that someone will compare someone else to Hitler. 
And Hillary Clinton has done just that: On Tuesday the former secretary of state reportedly told a private fund-raising party that Russian President Vladimir Putin's actions are similar to Hitler's in the run up to World War II. 
Her quote (according to the Long Beach Press-Telegram): "All the Germans that were ... the ethnic Germans, the Germans by ancestry who were in places like Czechoslovakia and Romania and other places, Hitler kept saying they're not being treated right. I must go and protect my people, and that's what's gotten everybody so nervous."
Of course, what also gets everybody "so nervous" is leading statesmen comparing Putin to Hitler and, thereby, raising the specter of another world war. 
It's unlikely that Clinton intended to gain politically from these remarks -- and they were carefully qualified. She added that "there is no indication that Putin is as irrational" as the German dictator was. But they could indicate that if she wins the 2016 election, America might gain a slightly more forceful president in foreign affairs, someone more willing to engage directly in Europe than Obama has. You may recall that in the 2008 primaries she was the Democrats' hawk candidate -- so much so that Ann Coulter preferred her to John McCain (Coulter called her "our girl").
But was Clinton right? Mostly no. It is true that Putin's justification for intervention in Ukraine is similar to Hitler's, that is, threatening to invade a sovereign territory to defend his ethnic brethren. But the situation is complex, and the historical comparison is tenuous at best.
After all, in the eyes of many ethnic Russians, it is the Ukrainian nationalists -- not Putin -- who are the Nazis. The Russians have asserted, quite accurately, that the revolution that overthrew a pro-Russian, democratically elected leader has resulted in the elevation of Russophobe fascists into key government positions. For example, the new secretary of the Ukrainian National Security and Defense Council is Andriy Parubiy -- co-founder of the Neo-Nazi Social-National Party of Ukraine (SNPU). 
Another creator of the SNPU is Oleh Tyahnybok, a high-profile leader of the Kiev protests who has blamed Ukraine's problems on a Jewish conspiracy run out of Moscow. Ukraine's new deputy secretary of national security is Dmytro Yarosh, leader of the Right Sector group, which regards Tyahnybok as a soft liberal and which flies the old flag of the Ukrainian Nazi collaborators at its rallies. 
In other words, in this situation, who exactly are the Nazis? Putin's ethnic Russian nationalists? Or the fringe of the ethnic Ukrainian nationalists? Neither is particularly pleasant.
Of course, the Ukrainian Nazi movement is small, and Ukraine is dwarfed by Russia, which puts Putin in the role of the dominant regional power picking on a small country and exploiting its extremist politics for the purpose of propaganda. But Putin is still no Hitler, because he lacks the German Fuhrer's global vision. 
Hitler worked by an all-encompassing racist ideology that dreamed of turning Europe into a giant living space for his people. Putin -- the leader of a democracy, albeit a highly corrupt and politically stagnant one -- simply meddles in the affairs of countries that could reasonably be said to fall within his country's historical sphere of influence. Ukraine was a part of the Soviet Union until two decades ago (whereas Crimea was part of Russia until 1954), the country contains millions of ethnic Russians and, crucially, it has Russian military installations that are key to Russia's strategic interests. 
In other words, a Russian invasion of Ukraine is not going to be a stepping stone to the invasion of France. Unfortunately, it may well be a stepping stone to involvement in the affairs of the Baltic states -- which are firmly in NATO and the EU.  This is why Putin's latest ambitions have to be checked.
Nevertheless, calling Putin Hitler is careless. Even reckless. As Marc Tracy points out in the New Republic, it's historically insensitive and ignores the tapestry of cultural clashes and political calculations going on. It smacks, too, of the Manichean division of the world between good and evil that permeated the war on terror and led to so many terrible mistakes and so many American deaths overseas. Worse, still, is that such provocative language should be applied to a confrontation with a state like Russia. 
We are dealing with a major power with nuclear weapons that has the capacity to reduce the world to so much irradiated ash. The West needs to be careful with its words.
To Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, Russian President Vladimir Putin invaded Ukraine because the United States failed to avenge the 2012 terrorist attack that killed four Americans in Benghazi, Libya.
"It started with Benghazi," Graham posted Tuesday on Twitter. "When you kill Americans and nobody pays a price, you invite this type of aggression."
Nonsense, said Democratic strategist and CNN political contributor Paul Begala.
"The whole notion that this is all about the United States or all about President Obama, it's frankly silly," Begala said Wednesday on CNN's "New Day."
Such is the state of political discourse these days in the United States, where every issue -- particularly one that dominates media headlines -- becomes fair game for partisan attack.
The dynamic is especially acute in an election year, when candidates and parties seek to score points with voters, and magnified even more when it involves foreign policy, noted Darrell West, the vice president for governance studies at the Brookings Institution.
"It doesn't matter what happens -- Republicans attack and Democrats sound defensive," West told CNN on Wednesday. "It's easy to do in foreign policy because there are so many unexpected things that take place. Every month there's going to be a crisis. We just don't know where."
Regardless of what started the events that led to Russia's incursion into Ukraine's Crimea Peninsula last week, both sides have adopted postures now familiar to Americans already disgusted with the political dysfunction permeating Washington.
"Can you think of any place in the world, any place where we are better off now than we were when he came to office?" Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell said Wednesday of President Barack Obama.  "He has acted in such a way almost amounting to passivity in many instances."
Concerned about being labeled a war-monger, McConnell quickly made clear that "we are not suggesting here that the use of force is appropriate in very many occasions."
"Only occasionally," he said. "But there is a widespread kind of lack of respect for U.S. opinion."
To former Vermont Gov. and Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean, Obama "is doing exactly the right thing" with a measured approach to the Ukraine crisis.
"He's ratcheting up the heat, and he's doing it slowly enough so that Putin has a chance to back off," Dean said Tuesday on CNN's "Crossfire." 
"One problem with Vladimir Putin is not only has he broken the law, but he now has to back down and save face at the same time. He needs the opportunity to do that. So the President needs to tighten the vise, keep squeezing gently, carefully, and not making it so public. And I think he's doing exactly that," Dean said.
Most striking about the back-and-forth is that deep down, the two sides generally agree on what should happen. No one wants a military confrontation involving U.S. forces, instead preferring steps to isolate Russia diplomatically and economically.
Ideas include a threatened boycott of the upcoming G8 summit in Sochi, with hints of kicking Russia out of the group of industrial powers that includes the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Canada.
Also under consideration are strong economic sanctions, perhaps targeting Russia's state-owned banks or wealthy oligarchs who keep and spend much of their money abroad. The United States has halted some military cooperation as well.
The venom of political dialogue generally depends on the toughness of the electoral challenge facing a particular candidate. 
Graham and McConnell both have conservative primary rivals in traditionally red states of South Carolina and Kentucky, and therefore want to sound belligerent against anything involving Obama and Democrats.
Compare their rhetoric to Rep. Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the GOP vice-presidential nominee in 2012 who remains open to a presidential run in 2016. 
With his re-election presumably as safe as can be, Ryan touched on the main points of responses from both sides to the Ukraine crisis.
"When you have the world superpower having a foreign policy that, in my opinion, is weak and a defense policy now that shows weakness, I think it invites aggression. I think that it creates a vacuum that is filled by these types of actions," Ryan told CNN on Wednesday. "But, let's be really clear.  Who is to blame for this?  Vladimir Putin is to blame for this. And, I think the administration is making the proper responses."
To West, Republicans "always love to make Obama look weak on foreign policy."
"It's easy to say that the President was caught off guard," West said in a telephone interview.  "He was caught off guard, but so was every expert in the country. I don't think anybody anticipated that first there would be the overturning of the government in the Ukraine, and then the Russian response after that."
He called the knee-jerk criticism "a way for people to take advantage of the international uncertainty to score political points," adding that "political responses are heightened because we're facing a midterm election."
Graham clearly had the 2016 presidential vote in mind when he linked Benghazi to Ukraine. Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is the overwhelming Democratic favorite if she runs, and Graham and other Republicans want to keep the terror attack in Libya on her watch fresh in the minds of voters.
He also is among a group of hawkish Senate veterans trying to minimize or even reverse cuts to defense spending in recent years, hastened in part by GOP insistence on reduced government spending.
"A lot of the current discussion is taking place against the backdrop of a conflict over defense spending," West noted. "Obama's budget wants to scale back defense spending, and Republicans are upset with that. It's easy for them to use Ukraine as an example for not cutting the military."
The nation's top intelligence office denies suggestions the United States was caught off guard by Russia's military intervention in Ukraine, calling reports to that effect "highly inaccurate."
Shawn Turner, a spokesman for Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, said in a statement Wednesday that the intelligence community has "frequently warned of worrisome trends with respect to Russia's foreign policy" since Vladimir Putin returned to the presidency in 2012.
He included examples issued several days before Russia's movement last week into the Crimean peninsula during political upheaval in Ukraine.
Some members of Congress have been vocal in their questioning of intelligence ahead of the military steps taken by Putin, and vowed to investigate.
On Tuesday, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican, ordered a review of the intelligence assessment leading up to the intervention, Rogers' spokeswoman Susan Phalen said.
Separately, Rep. Peter King, a New York Republican and a member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, said on CNN's "Erin Burnett OutFront" that Russia's intervention was "not predicted" but was "among a list of possibilities."
He said lawmakers would look at whether "more intelligence could have been gathered" or whether there was a problem with the analysis.
"Now the CIA is right in that they did give that as a possibility but they certainly didn't say it was going to happen," he said, noting there would be hearings on the matter.
"But clearly we were not anticipating this level of attack, this level of incursion by the Russians and that is something that as we're going to have I believe an ongoing series of crises with the Russians we have to do better in the future," he said.
In the Senate, John McCain pressed Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel at an Armed Services Committee hearing on Wednesday on whether Russia's Crimea action was a surprise.
Hagel said "we were aware of the threat" but declined to get into further details in a public setting.
McCain, an Arizona Republican, shot back, calling it a "massive failure of our reading of Putin."
Critics contend the United States and its European allies might have been able to mount a better case or otherwise persuade Putin to not move his forces into Crimea had they had a clearer understanding of what he was going to do.
But Turner, in his statement, said the intelligence community warned on February 26 that Crimea was a "flashpoint for Russian-Ukraine military conflict."
That assessment included an analysis of Russian military assets "staged for a potential deployment and those already in Ukraine that could be used for other purposes," Turner said.
 "It clearly stated that the Russian military was likely making preparations for contingency operations in the Crimea and noted that such operations could be executed with little additional warning," Turner said.
He added that the intelligence community has "worked diligently" throughout the Ukraine crisis to provide policymakers with the "best possible insight and understanding."
Russian President Vladimir Putin says neo-fascist far-right groups are firmly behind the putsch -- coup d'etat -- in Kiev and questions the democratic credentials of "men with black masks and Kalashnikovs" who became  the poster children of the Maidan for Russians.
Does this assessment have any truth to it? In the fast-moving and chronically complex course of events in Ukraine, the issue has been debated from the beginning: the role of the far right in the events that led to the toppling of the Viktor Yanukovych government and in the present and future disposition of political power in the country.
There are some known facts: First, far-right, anti-Semitic, anti-Russian and openly fascist groups have existed and do exist as a blight on modern Ukraine. A 2012 European Parliament resolution condemned the main -- but by no means most extreme -- ultra-right party, Svoboda, as "racist, anti-Semitic and xenophobic."  
This extraordinary EU resolution contains 18 points of concern over policies embedded in laws of the Ukrainian Rada, or Parliament. A key paragraph reads that the EU  "is concerned about the rising nationalistic sentiment in Ukraine." The Parliament stresses that "racist, anti-Semitic and xenophobic views go against the EU's fundamental values and principles."
The resolution also appeals to pro-democratic parties in the Rada "not to associate with, endorse or form coalitions with this party."
As if to endorse the sentiments of the EU resolution, the leader of Svoboda (or "Freedom"), Oleh Tyahnybok, is on record saying that Kiev is governed by "a Jewish-Russian mafia"  and has said Ukrainians bravely fought Muscovites, Germans, Jews "and other scum" in World War II.
This unsavory constituency, including the "ultra" Right Sector movement, manned the barricades in the Kiev uprising, providing "security" to the mainstream political opposition leaders and matching the pro-government forces in violent tactics that led to the dozens of dead in and around the Maidan.  
These rightist-nationalist forces  were in large part responsible for the collapse of the agreement signed in February that called for early parliamentary and presidential elections and a return to the 2004 Ukrainian constitution, which harks back to the "Orange Revolution" that brought a pro-West government to power in Ukraine. 
In backing away from this face-saving compromise, one that was negotiated with the approval of the French, German and Polish governments, and which surely would have resulted in the removal of Yanukovych, moderate opposition leaders essentially capitulated to the far right.
The Russian position is also somewhat bolstered by the fact that Svoboda holds key posts in the interim government in Kiev, including that of deputy prime minister. Andriy Parubiy, the commander of the "Maidan self-defense," has been appointed the head of the National Security and Defense Council, and the leader of the Right Sector ultras, Dmitro Yarosh,  is expected to become his deputy chairman.  Svoboda controls the prosecutor general office and the ministries of ecology and agriculture.
 At very least, the interim government has made bedfellows of some highly suspect and divisive forces.
But it is also true to say that many of the specific details of far-right activity and influence are anecdotal and perhaps contradictory.  
On the one hand, there are reports of Jewish homes in Lviv and the western part of Ukraine being daubed with anti-Semitic slogans; on the other, Ukraine's head rabbi has weighed in with the opinion that anti-Semitism is "not on the rise." A group of Jewish groups sent an open  letter to Putin that said, in part, "Your certainty of the growth of anti-Semitism in Ukraine also does not correspond to the actual facts."
It is also true that far-right forces are on the rise across Europe, including in the "respectable" democracies of the West, and that their targets range from Jews to Roma to gays to any "out" group, including the miscellany of new immigrants who are encouraged under European Union laws of free movement.  
Finally, it is true that the long reach of memory evokes images from 70  years ago, those of robust support in western Ukraine for the fascist side during World War II. This is especially true in the east and south of a divided country, those regions that look to Moscow rather than to Washington or Brussels.  
But these various points do not alter the fact that the European Parliament undertook the extraordinary measure of singling out Ukrainian ultra-nationalism, nor do they gainsay the role of its most influential exponent, Svoboda, in the new interim government. 
In this context, and even as they may disagree on specific measures to be taken the path toward a prosperous, peaceful, united, democratic Ukraine, sober observers agree that this can be achieved only with the marginalization of the far right. 
Unfortunately, the appointments of ultra-rightists to the interim government place this in serious question. Looking ahead, we must hope that the meeting in Brussels of the European foreign ministers, including Russia -- the first, we assume, of several -- may create a blueprint for Ukraine based on cooperative solutions rather than confrontation.
Anchor quits: I can't be part of network 'that whitewashes' Putin's actions
Another member of state-funded Russia Today made waves on Wednesday -- not by standing behind Moscow, as the news network is wont to do, but by bucking it.
From the anchor chair, Liz Wahl closed a show -- as seen in video which she later tweeted -- talking about the "ethical and moral challenges" she faces working for Russia Today, also known as RT. She spoke of being from a family who fled to America to escape Soviet forces during the 1956 Hungarian revolution, being the daughter of a U.S. military veteran and being the partner of a physician who works at a U.S. military base.
"And that is why, personally, I cannot be part of a network funded by the Russian government that whitewashes the actions of Putin," Wahl said, referring to Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
"I'm proud to be an American and believe in disseminating the truth," she added. "And that is why, after this newscast, I'm resigning."
Not that she would've necessarily lasted much longer, after her comments. In a statement, RT said, "When a journalist disagrees with the editorial position of his or her organization, the usual course of action is to address those grievances with the editor, and, if they cannot be resolved, to quit like a professional."
"But when someone makes a big public show of a personal decision, it is nothing more than a self-promotional stunt," said the network.
Talking Wednesday night to CNN's Anderson Cooper, Wahl said the idea she did this "for personal gain ... couldn't be farther from the truth." She said she'd "hesitated to speak on this for a while for fear of repercussion," but decided to act now based on her belief "the propagandist nature of RT (had come) out in full force" over its coverage of the Ukraine crisis.
"RT is not about the truth; it's about promoting a Putinist agenda," Wahl told CNN. "And I can tell you firsthand, it's about bashing America."
Wahl, who characterizes herself as a Filipina-Hungarian-American and RT America correspondent on her Twitter feed, became the second personality from Russia Today to defiantly, publicly challenge the government that effectively signs their paychecks.
Her resignation announcement didn't explicitly mention the crisis in Ukraine, though she mentioned it later in her CNN interview. Backed by Western diplomats, officials in that Eastern European nation claim that Russian troops have violated their sovereignty by effectively invading the Crimean peninsula.
Putin, meanwhile, has denied sending any more of his country's troops into the country, or that any of the up to 25,000 troops who are stationed there have played any part in the standoff, according to the state-run RIA Novosti news agency.
But that situation is central to RT's coverage, which leans toward Moscow's point of view. On Wednesday, for instance, its website featured stories with headlines such as "Kiev snipers hired by Maidan leaders," "'Cold War stereotypes': Russia condemns NATO plan" and "Questions on Ukraine the West chooses not to answer."
Two days ago, another RT personality -- Abby Martin -- referred directly to "Russia's military occupation of Crimea" while seemingly going off this pro-Russia script at the end of her "Breaking the Set" program.
"I can't stress enough how strongly I am against any state intervention in a sovereign nation's affairs," said Martin, a California native who, like Wahl, is based in Washington. "What Russia did is wrong."
In fact, she returned to the air the following night and wasn't even reprimanded, according to the network. As RT noted in a statement, Martin called it "kind of a sad commentary that" -- while she's regularly spoken out against military intervention -- "my only criticism of Russia's actions was picked up" by the media.
On Wednesday night, Wahl said she'd recently become upset over portions of one of her interviews being cut, what she called a "very dangerous" segment on neo-Nazi elements among the Ukrainian opposition and "very, very loaded" questions being planted by RT's management.
"I felt that I could no longer work here and go on television and tell the American people that this is what's happening and have it pose as news," Wahl said. "It's something that I don't feel comfortable with."
Leaked call raises questions about who was behind sniper attacks in Ukraine
Both Wahl and Martin's remarks shined a spotlight on what exactly RT is -- in terms of its purpose and its viewpoint, especially for its U.S.-based, English-language programming.
The Russian foreign ministry's website points to the network as a top media source. And the Columbia Journalism Review says it is best "known as an extension of former President Vladimir Putin's confrontational foreign policy." 
In its statement on Martin, the network said that "RT journalists and hosts are free to express their own opinions."
What makes Martin's comments different from those of Wahl, according to RT, is that the former "spoke in the context of her own talk show, to the viewers who have been tuning in for years to hear her opinions on current events, the opinions that most media did not care about until two days ago."
"For years, Ms. Martin, has been speaking out against U.S. military intervention only to be ignored by the mainstream news outlets," RT added. "But with that one comment, branded as an act of defiance, she became an overnight sensation."
The network then seemed to suggest that Wahl -- who cheered Martin as "my girl" after her commentary -- paid attention to all the hoopla.
Wahl said many who do follow the lead of network management -- the senior members of which are in Moscow -- are young, "inexperienced" and "eager to please" their bosses.
"Eventually, you learn what management likes, what management dislikes," she said. "... They kind of make sure the narrative is delivered in one way or another." 
As so often happens in big international confrontations, Ukraine is devolving into a complicated mess from which no one has yet outlined a reasonable retreat acceptable to all sides.  Russia did not push into Crimea just to put its tanks in reverse and go home. The Ukrainian government can't very well tolerate a land grab within 400 miles of Kiev.  And the big Western powers, including the United States, have raised so many threats and objections, they will look weak, dishonest, or both if nothing is done now.  
So let's sort through some options as laid out by many of our expert analysts on CNN. 
1) Going to the guns: This is a good one to dispense with first, because no one wants it.  Ukraine, absent massive and sustained outside help, would be decimated by the Russian bear.  The Russians are better trained, better equipped and better funded.  By virtue of geography and their superior navy, they would start the fight with Ukraine 60% encircled by hostile forces.  But Russia has reason to keep the pistols holstered, too.  Turning eastern Ukraine into a battlefield would disrupt critical industry, agriculture, and oil and gas sales in the region for years.  Also, a pitched battle could draw in other players, and then the whole World War III discussion lights up.
2) Russia retreats:  Unlikely.  They didn't steam into Crimea just for a getaway weekend.  The Russians have important assets to protect there, and that does not necessarily mean the 60% of the Crimean population that grew up speaking Russian.  The vaunted Black Sea Fleet counts on its Sevastopol port for year-round access (via Istanbul) to the warm waters of the Mediterranean.  Arguably, the fear of losing that route to an unfriendly Ukrainian government is what drove Russia to take Crimea in the first place.   
Leaked call raises questions about who was behind sniper attacks in Ukraine
3) Russia retreats with some conditions:  More likely.  What conditions?  Crimean leaders have already voted to leave Ukraine and rejoin Russia which was home until 1954, when Russia gave Crimea to Ukraine.  Crimean voters will have a chance to ratify or reject this decision in the next couple of weeks, even as Kiev says they have no right to redraw the national borders.  In any event, this is one possibility: Crimea becomes a part of Russia, or a semi-independent nation with great affection for Russia (read: a puppet state ready to do whatever Moscow wants). Or Russia gets a permanent agreement to turn Sevastopol into Russian territory, like the arrangement the United States has with Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. No matter how that plays out, Russia denies ever having designs on all of this -- even as the mysterious troops in the peninsula melt away, the rest of the world grumbles, and Ukraine goes back to trying to pay its debts.
4) Russia advances:  Not content with Crimea and eager to show Kiev just who they are messing with, the Russians storm across the border and take much of eastern Ukraine.  No one knows if this is in Russian President Vladimir Putin's plans, but if it happens ... see option No. 1. 
5) The Western world turns on the squeeze play:  The White House appears to want a unified effort in which nations all over the globe use their political and economic might to punish Russia and leave the new Ukrainian government triumphant.  Problem is, several big countries seem reluctant to take that course, and unless everyone is on the same page, any sanctions would be weakened.  And even though it was hit hard in 2008 by the recession, Russia is not Syria, Iran, or North Korea.  This is a big nation that is unlikely to buckle quickly to any amount of pressure.
The takeaway: There are plenty of other possibilities, but conventional wisdom says these are the most likely options at the moment.  The biggest danger?  Everyone is wrong ... and some unforeseen, uncontrolled options arise, making the situation not better, but even worse.  
READ: Anchor quits: I can't be part of network 'that whitewashes' Putin's actions
While hosting CNN's Crossfire this week, I said: "Republicans are practically cheering for Vladimir Putin today. He's given them a new excuse to bash President Obama."  
I pointed out that Republicans have been slamming Obama for his handling of the Ukraine crisis even though I have not heard a single, specific way in which they would handle the situation differently. No new ideas, just new insults.  
The howls came quickly, and my assertion has been repeatedly attacked and mischaracterized. But the evidence to support it is, troublingly, everywhere. 
I'm not saying Republicans are pro-Putin or that they want him to invade Ukraine.  But they certainly have X conveniently, even gleefully -- found a good way to put Putin's actions to political use at home. Just listen to former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani on Monday: "Putin decides what he wants to do and he does it in half a day... he makes a decision and he executes it. Quickly. Then everybody reacts. That's what you call a leader."  
And Sarah Palin: "People are looking at Putin as one who wrestles bears and drills for oil; they look at our President as one who wears mom jeans and equivocates and bloviates." 
Republican leaders are not only bashing Obama, but appearing to praise Putin.
There's more:  Sen. John McCain, R- Arizona, seemed to blame the Ukraine crisis on Obama, telling the American Israel Public Affairs Committee this week, "this is the ultimate result of a feckless foreign policy in which nobody believes in America's strength anymore." 
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina, has weighed in: "We have a weak and indecisive President that invites aggression," as did Rep. Tom Cotton, R-Arkansas: "Emboldened by President Obama's trembling inaction, Vladimir Putin has invaded the Crimea region of Ukraine." 
Listen, there's nothing wrong with criticizing the President's policy positions or actions.  To hold a President's feet to the fire over every aspect of government is the job not only of our elected leaders but of all citizens.  Substantive dissent is indeed patriotic.  But substantive dissent is not what we have here.  We have baseless, petty politics that are ultimately counterproductive to America's global standing. 
On Saturday, Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Florida, published a list of steps he thinks Obama should take to "punish Russia." They included calling Russia's actions an invasion X which, um, Secretary of State John Kerry actually did the same day that Rubio made his demand X and sending Kerry to Kiev, which was announced a day later. The ranking Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tennessee, called for immediate sanctions against Russia--but the Treasury Department under Obama's direction was already drafting a package of stiff sanctions.  
Republicans have also called for visa bans for Russian leaders and asset freezes.  Well, on Sunday, Kerry said, "There could even be, ultimately, asset freezes, visa bans. There could be certainly disruption of any of the normal trade routine. There could be business drawback on investment in the country."  He said the major world powers are "going to isolate Russia" and "all options are on the table."
If the Obama administration is already acting on the initiatives that its Republican critics are demanding in response to the Ukraine crisis, why are they complaining?
Because, they allege, it's because Obama has been so weak for five years that Putin thought he could get away with invading Ukraine. Let's look at that argument more closely.
In August 2008, Vladimir Putin invaded the Republic of Georgia while George W. Bush was President of the United States. Where were the "weakness" complaints from Republicans? Well, conservative columnist Charles Krauthammer X who has said that in the Ukraine situation Obama's "inaction created a vacuum" and who derided the President's statements on Ukraine as "weak" X said of the Georgia invasion back in 2008, "Well, obviously it's beyond our control. The Russians are advancing. There is nothing that will stop them."  
Conservative Heritage Foundation national security staffer Peter Brookes exuded a similar calm in 2008: "There's no easy answer; there's only tough choices... Russia is a tough nut to crack."  Apparently when a Democrat is president the situation is much simpler. Last Friday, Brookes explained that the Russian invasion of Crimea is proof that "this administration's policy toward Russia has been a failure."  Hmmm....
There's another aspect to this Republican hypocrisy.  McCain recently called Obama "the most naive president in history" because of his foreign policy tactics.  And yet it was George W. Bush who famously said, upon meeting Putin, "I looked the man in the eye. I found him to be very straight forward and trustworthy, and we had a very good dialogue.  I was able to get a sense of his soul."  Did Republicans find him "weak"? "Naive"? 
Contrast this with Obama, who, against considerable odds, wrangled Russia into a constructive role on Iran sanctions, Syrian chemical weapons removal and a new START treaty.  It is not merely laughable to call this President, who has unfortunately expanded the use of drone warfare and who also ordered the mission to kill Osama bin Laden, "weak."  It is also self-destructive to our national interest, since absent any substantive disagreements, it reveals only national disunity in the face of a global crisis. 
It's what Republicans might call -- if the other party were doing it X poor leadership.
With heavily armed Russian-speaking troops patrolling the streets, the Crimean Parliament voted Thursday to join Russia and put its decision to a referendum. The all-but-inevitable annexation of Crimea is moving forward, despite protests, warnings and threats from the U.S. and its allies.
The clash between Vladimir Putin's Russia and the forces arrayed in support of Ukraine's independence-minded leaders has crashed the vaunted "reset," ending hopes that Moscow and the West would smooth relations and work hand-in-hand toward common objectives.
Nobody can predict with certainty how this conflict will end. But the world can already glean important lessons. Unfortunately, most of those lessons are cause for deep concern. Here are five clear messages from the crisis in Ukraine.
1. Nobody's scared of America, but American and European values hold strong appeal.
Lest we forget, this all started over a move by the now-deposed Ukrainian president, Viktor Yanukovych, who broke his promise to sign a partnership agreement with the European Union in favor of closer ties with Moscow. Ukrainians were enraged, not just because they want more trade with Europe but because they have seen what Western standards can bring to a society.
They were fed up with corruption, authoritarianism and stagnation. They wanted their country to be free of Moscow's interference, and many gave up their lives to fight for an ideal of stronger democratic institutions, rule of law and fair play.
As strong as the pull of these values is, their principal advocate, the U.S., has lost much of its ability to stare down its foes in support of those who want to institute democratic principles in their countries. We saw it when President Barack Obama declared -- years ago -- that Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad must step down. We saw it when then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was pelted with tomatoes in Egypt. And we saw it in Ukraine, when Obama warned Putin to respect Ukraine's territorial integrity, only to see the Russians capture Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula. America does not intimidate.
Even if Moscow were to relinquish all control of Ukrainian territory today, Putin has already achieved a main goal. He has sent a clear message to countries that were once part of the Soviet Union -- and perhaps to the USSR's former Eastern European satellites -- that they cannot defy his wishes without paying a painful price. In that sense, Putin has won.
 A top Putin aide warned last summer that Ukraine was risking  "suicide" if it dared to defy Moscow. Now we know this was no bluff. Putin is serious about protecting Moscow's sphere of influence. It's not clear how closely he wants to control what are supposed to be independent countries.
3. If you are a vulnerable state, you may regret surrendering nuclear weapons.
This may be the most dangerous of all the lessons from this crisis. Ukraine had a sizable nuclear arsenal at the end of the Cold War, but it agreed to give it up in exchange for security guarantees. In the 1994 Budapest Memorandum, Ukraine committed itself to dismantling the world's third-largest nuclear arsenal. Russia, in exchange, vowed to respect Ukraine's borders and its independence. Now, Russia has clearly violated those commitments.  If Ukraine still had its atomic weapons, Moscow would have thought twice before seizing parts of Ukraine.
 4. Don't expect support from all international peace activists (unless the U.S. invades).
To liberal activists in Ukraine and Russia, the reaction from international peace movement must be a hard pill to swallow. Parts of Ukraine have been captured at the point of a gun by a regime that actively suppresses dissent. When liberal Russians protested, police arrested hundreds of anti-war demonstrators. 
While Russia's invasion of Ukrainian territory and its harsh crackdown on local protests have been criticized by some human rights activists, the reaction among some prominent "peace" activists has been astonishing. Several have mimicked Putin's line, blaming the U.S. for the crisis. Instead of taking a clear stance in support of a country with invading military forces on its soil, some so-called anti-war groups have taken the opportunity to dust off their anti-American vitriol.
A favorite line of discussion is whether Washington has any right to criticize Russia's invasion of Ukrainian territory after the U.S. invaded Iraq, a country that was ruled by one of the world's most brutal, genocidal dictators. However misguided America's Iraq invasion, even drawing the comparison is an insult to Ukrainians.
One day, if history moves in the direction we all wish, countries will solve their disputes through diplomacy and negotiation. Sadly, that day has not arrived. John Kerry has expressed dismay at Putin's "19th-century" behavior, but power politics, forcible border expansion and brazen aggression have not been relegated to the history books; witness events in places like Syria, the Central African Republic and now in Ukraine. 
Those are the first five lessons. But allow me to offer a bonus, a work in progress that could join as No. 6: When the stakes grow high enough, the U.S. and Europe may rise to the challenge.
Western nations seemed caught off-guard by Putin's "incredible act of aggression," as Kerry termed it. Some of Putin's gains (see No. 2) may be irreversible. But the U.S. and Europe have been shaken up by events, and they may yet send a message of their own, helping Kiev's government succeed and prosper as it sets out to chart a future of its own and limiting Putin's ability to replicate his acts of intimidation. 
Kerry's visit to Kiev was a powerful moment. His unvarnished message to Putin, if backed by action, was a respectable start. The U.S. would prefer to see this crisis resolved through negotiations, he declared, but if Russia chooses not to do so, Washington's and its partners "will isolate Russia politically, diplomatically and economically."  Already the EU is offering Ukraine an aid package comparable to the one Putin used to lure it away. Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel is boosting ties with Poland and the Baltic States, and economic sanctions are under discussion.
"Are you for Ukraine or for Russia?" Alex Shiroki's boss asked him Thursday.
Shiroki, 35, from Yalta, opposes the Russian invasion, and the proposed rejoining of Crimea to Russia. But he carefully said his views are "something in the middle" -- just in case his opinion could affect his job. His boss supports Russia. 
"He says that Russia is more rich than Ukraine and we will have stability," Shiroki said. "Most of (the) people think like that."
It's amazing how normal life continues to appear in some parts of Crimea. People still go to work, to restaurants, to bars. But tensions continue to mount in the region, where lawmakers voted Thursday in favor of rejoining Russia and having a referendum in 10 days. 
Many people are sincerely grateful for the Russian presence, said Maria Zaborovska, 24, who lives in Crimea and is translating for international radio journalists. 
"I don't know if they fully realize -- if they know what it means," Zaborovska said of the pro-Russia supporters. Many of them were born in the Soviet Union and speak Russian, she said. 
As to how they would benefit from Crimea becoming part of Russia, people who support breaking off from Ukraine don't seem to have answers, she said. Zaborovska herself is against the Russian invasion.
In the main square in Simferopol, a crowd gathered Wednesday in support of Russia, waving flags. 
"Our grandparents protected our land from the SS, and we will protect our land from Western extremists," one woman shouted. "Thank you Russia for protecting us." 
Biscuits with Crimean jam were served up at a pro-Russian militia recruitment center, with a portrait of Russian President Vladimir Putin watching over. Anna Bardina a Russia supporter, told CNN's Diana Magnay that she has been receiving threatening texts from far right elements, and even death threats from Chechnya.
"Russia is far more stable," she said. "They have no economic problems, not like here where we have movements like the Maidan and are in a political and economic mess," she said, referring to the popular pro-European street rallies that led to the ouster of Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych.
Areas around military bases showcase the bubbling tensions. Wednesday, outside the headquarters of the Ukrainian navy in Sevastopol, women tried to sneak up to windows and shove food through to the soldiers inside. 
The facility is surrounded by pro-Russian civilians who call themselves a "civil defense group," backed up by masked, armed men in green combat fatigues, presumed to be Russian soldiers. 
A woman with her young daughter, bringing soup and meatballs to her husband inside, was turned away. So was a Sevastopol Red Cross worker who tried to bring in supplies.
"There are no problems with food," one of the men told him. "Anyone who wants to eat can go home."
In the seaside resort city of Yalta, Alex Shiroki observed a crowd of hundreds gathered Wednesday by a monument to Vladimir Lenin, singing songs and waving flags in support of Russia. He thought the pro-Russian presence would be even bigger. 
Shiroki doesn't mind people expressing their opinion, but the latest string of political developments has him depressed. 
"It's happening so fast that I am kind of lost and disoriented by all of this," he said. 
With tourism as a main industry in the city, several hotels are closing their doors, with at least one big hotel firing personnel, Shiroki said. 
"Smaller hotels, they just closed because maybe they think there is no hope of having tourists in summer," he said. It's unclear if they will re-open. For now, the region is largely blocked off by troops and vacationers are likely making other plans in the face of obvious tensions.
Shiroki has not seen any of the presumably Russian soldiers in unmarked green uniforms, as his friends have encountered in other cities such as Simferopol. As a joke, people refer to these troops as "polite armed people," Shiroki said. 
One of Shiroki's friends brought food to Ukrainian soldiers at a military base in Perevalnoe, near Simferopol, and told Shiroki he was stopped by soldiers about 20 times on the way. After answering many questions, he was able to deliver the food through a gate, but could not go inside. 
If Crimea does become part of Russia, as Shiroki suspects it probably will, he will consider leaving the country. Shiroki has been studying Polish, so Poland could be an option, or perhaps elsewhere in Europe or the United States. 
"If you dislike living in a place ruled by a power you dislike, maybe you should change your life," Shiroki said.
READ: Ukraine PM Yatsenyuk: Crimea 'was, is and will be an integral part of Ukraine'
The United States has been rudely reminded that Russia is a major power with different values, ambitions and goals than America's.
Putin's brazen move to assert Russian interests, in Crimea in particular and Ukraine in general, seems to have come as a shock to many leaders in the Obama administration and to most of the American news media.
President Barack Obama had after all ridiculed Sen. John McCain in 2008 and Gov. Mitt Romney in 2012 for suggesting that Russian policy could become a major problem.
Then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton dramatically pushed a reset button to demonstrate the Obama team's commitment to working with Russia.
President Obama, not realizing he was on an open microphone, promised then-Russian President Dmitry Medvedev that once he was past the election he could be more flexible in accommodating Russian concerns.
All this naive fantasy of a "good Russia" has been shattered in the last week.
The earlier overly positive statements have been replaced with a tendency to demonize President Vladimir Putin.  For example, Clinton has moved from her reset button to comparing Putin to Adolf Hitler (a comparison she can't possibly have meant but which is a perfect case study in the hysteria to which symbolic liberalism is prone).  
Strong words mask a position of weakness. As former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger has observed, calling Putin names is not a substitute for a strategy.  
The United States has virtually no tactical cards it can play in the Crimea. We are not going to confront the Russians militarily. The local population of Crimea is at least 60% Russian-speakers. Association with Russia might win a popular referendum (thus putting the democracies in a real dilemma).
On the other hand, Putin may reconsider the idea of independence for Crimea because the pro-Russian voters are needed to win in Ukraine overall. If the heavily pro-Russian Crimea were no longer in Ukraine, the pro-Western forces would be substantially stronger in Kiev.
Whatever happens in the next few weeks in Crimea, the United States has a very limited tactical ability to affect it. The United States and our allies can do a fair amount to help the rest of Ukraine stay independent and we should commit to that project.
However, in the long run there is a much greater threat that the United States has to confront.
The very principles that led Putin to use force in Crimea could be applied to the Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. There are a lot of ethnic Russians in all three countries (and especially in Estonia). They are much closer to Russia than is Crimea -- it is 228 miles from Tallinn, the capital of Estonia, to St. Petersburg. 
The great difference is that the three Baltic states are members of NATO. Any Russian adventurism in this area could force the enormous choice of either directly confronting Russia in its own neighborhood or allowing NATO to collapse because we are unwilling to meet our treaty obligations.
Convincing Putin that we take seriously his toughness and his determination, and we are prepared to meet it, could be a vital step toward avoiding a future disaster.
-- First, move to increase the production of oil and gas, thus dramatically lowering the price of oil, thereby cutting into Putin's ability to earn hard currency.
-- Second, wean the Europeans off their dependence on Russian natural gas as one of their biggest suppliers, thus lowering Putin's ability to exercise influence over the European community.
-- Third, strengthen the ability of Ukraine to produce its own energy so it has both a healthier economy and no longer relies on Putin and Russia as its main source of energy.
-- Fourth, strengthen American military capabilities to show that we recognize that Putin is more dangerous than we thought and that we are prepared to strengthen our ability to deal with any threat he might bring to bear, particularly on our NATO allies in the Baltic.
The Congress should call on the President to immediately issue an executive order to approve the Keystone XL pipeline, which will reduce the price of oil worldwide by getting more oil to market faster. Each drop in the dollars that Putin can get weakens his ability to undertake foreign adventures.
The President should also sign an executive order lifting the ban on selling natural gas to Europe. After all, since the executive order the President issued on Thursday indicates this is "a national emergency," then there are serious things we can do in a national emergency. 
This President has already proven a willingness to use executive orders widely. This would be one that would weaken and undermine Putin, while also beginning to liberate the Europeans from dependence on Russia. 
Obama should also immediately open closed offshore and federal land to drill for natural gas and oil. The more oil and gas the United States produces, the further we can drive down costs, leaving the Russians weaker and with fewer resources.
There are 24 liquid natural gas projects tied up in the federal bureaucracy. A presidential executive order could liberate them and send the clear signal the United States is prepared to replace Russia as the natural gas supplier of last resort.  This would clearly signal the Europeans that in the next few years they will have an alternative to being blackmailed by Putin.
Remember, it was President Reagan's strategy to drive down the price of oil to $11 a barrel that eventually bankrupted the Soviet Union and gave Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev no choice but to sign a series of agreements that recognized the decline of the Soviet Union.
If Clinton was both sincere and serious in comparing Putin to Hitler when she related the action in the Crimea to the action that Hitler took in Czechoslovakia  in 1938, then she would be demanding that we dramatically strengthen rather than weaken American defense. 
The President should announce that he is directing the Joint Chiefs to significantly re-evaluate the budget in order to be more than adequately prepared for any possible contingency. This would send a signal in the real world that the Russians would understand.
What we have so far is symbolic liberalism offering words, symbolic liberalism flying around the world from capital to capital having meetings, and symbolic liberalism targeting narrowly a handful of people in a way that will have no impact on Putin. 
What we could have is serious, robust action that would have a genuine and immediate impact and would weaken Russia's ability to act aggressively toward its neighbors.
This is the time to determine, are we serious about confronting Putin over the long run? Or after a few symbolic games, is the administration going to accommodate the new reality that Putin is creating?
Russia's stand off with Ukraine might be spilling over into the sporting arena with the idea floated for Fabio Capello's team to be barred from contesting June's World Cup, but the UEFA president believes this would be a travesty for the players who worked so hard to qualify for the finals in Brazil. 
Ukrainian officials and Western diplomats accuse Russia of sending thousands of troops into the Crimea region in the past week -- a claim Russia has denied. 
Earlier this week, an unnamed European Union official was reported to have told a BBC journalist that his organization may try to expel Russia from the 2014 finals. 
"I don't know why 11 players would not be allowed to play at the World Cup. Where is their responsibility?" Michel Platini told CNN.
"Why don't you (shut down) the Embassy? Embassies are still in the country."
Platini might now be an administrator, but he speaks from personal experience of how politics is never far away from sport.
The former France international had a similar decision to make when considering whether to contest the 1978 World Cup or not.
There were calls from various quarters to boycott the finals because of the repressive measures being undertaken by the military junta, which took charge in a coup in March 1976 and would rule until 1983.
One of the most infamous periods in Argentina's history followed, as thousands of individuals -- primarily with left wing leanings -- disappeared during the 'Dirty War'.
As the South American nation prepared to host its only World Cup to date, calls for a potential boycott were led by the Dutch whose team -- perhaps ironically -- would not just attend the event but reach the final as well.
Amnesty International was also a prominent campaigner as was a group in France called COBA, the French acronym for the 'Committee for the Boycott of the World Cup in Argentina', who wanted the competition scrapped altogether.
Despite the pressure, Platini -- who was just 20 at the time -- chose to play.
"It's always better to go and explain what you think is good rather than boycott," said the UEFA president.
"I think it's better to explain that you are not happy, which is the same opinion I had in 1978 when I was in Argentina for the World Cup," added the 58-year-old.
"I thought it was better to go and explain that we were not happy with what was happening in Argentina.
The Ukrainian Paralympic team is facing an equally tough choice as to whether it will boycott the Sochi Games or not.
Ukraine's sports minister has already announced a personal boycott and as the tense diplomatic and military standoff continues with Russia, it's possible the whole team could follow suit.
In addition to Ukraine's sports minister, politicians from Germany, Britain, the Netherlands, Canada and Poland are among those who have already said they will stay away.
Earlier this week, the White House canceled a presidential delegation to the Paralympic Games.
On Thursday, Germany announced it would not send governmental representatives in order to make a "very clear political signal to Russia", according to disabilities commissioner Verena Bentele.
Ukraine Paralympic Committee spokeswoman Natalia Garach told CNN a decision on whether the Ukrainian team will boycott Sochi will be announced at a press conference at 0930 GMT on Friday.
Two young news anchors for Russia's RT television network -- both Americans -- have blasted Moscow's military intervention in Ukraine, and their editor-in-chief claims the announcements, and the "mainstream media's" reaction to them, are part of a media war.
"We've got a genuine war going on," Margarita Simonyan, RT's editor-in-chief, wrote on RT's website. "No, thank God, it's not in Crimea. It's a media war."
Sitting behind the RT anchor desk on Wednesday, Washington-based Liz Wahl told the audience she "could not be part of a network funded by the Russian government that whitewashes the actions of (President Vladimir) Putin," adding "I'm proud to be an American and believe in disseminating the truth, and that is why after this newscast I am resigning."
The day before, Abby Martin announced on air, "I can't say enough how strongly I am against any state intervention in a sovereign nation's affairs ... what Russia did is wrong." Martin, however, did not resign and criticized "mainstream media" for ignoring her previous criticism of U.S. military action in other countries.
RT called Wahl's action a "self-promotional stunt" and, commenting on Martin's move, said RT staff members are free to express their views. 
The public criticism of Putin's actions on Ukraine is an embarrassment for RT, but Simonyan is rallying her journalists for a war, which, she believes, is directed by the American government with its foot soldiers being  the American media. 
"The storm of articles posted about RT over the last couple of days -- literally tons of printed copy -- looks as if it were written to dictation," she wrote. "Hardly any respectable media outlet refrained from lambasting and lynching RT journalists in articles or reports."
Simonyan works for RT, she said, because, "It's my country. There is no other choice for me." 
Depicting itself as an "alternative" voice is part of RT's marketing strategy. Organized in 2005 as an international TV news channel funded by the Russian government, its original name was "Russia Today" and its early mission was to inform the world about events and life in Russia.
That strategy, an RT editor told me bluntly a year ago, "was a mistake, really," because few people around the world are that interested in Russia.
The network soon lost its Russian image, re-branding itself as "RT," its English-language broadcasts featuring young Americans, and concentrating largely  on American news.
RT now has 2,500 employees, including editorial, technical and support staff, and five stations: RT International, RT America (English language), RT Arabic, RT Spanish and RT Documentary. This spring RT is launching its own video agency in Berlin to compete with Reuters and APTN.
In an interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper on Wednesday, Wahl said that, in its reports on the Ukraine crisis, "RT is not about the truth. It's about promoting a Putinist agenda, and I can tell you firsthand, it's also about bashing America." The editorial policy is set by its senior Russian editors. "Middle-management," she said, "is American, and their role is to make sure we're in line."
A senior staff member at RT insists the staff decides RT's editorial policy, not the Russian government, and compares RT with the BBC, France 24, Deutsche Welle, and other state-funded news outlets.
Russia, that staff member says, must constantly fight the Cold War image of the "evil Empire," and that could take years to overcome. 
Dmitri Trenin, an expert from the Carnegie Moscow Center who served in the Soviet and Russian military for more than 20 years, says RT's approach differs significantly from news broadcasting in the Soviet Union. "The Soviet system of propaganda talked about Russia. They had Russian announcers, by and large, and they tried to project Soviet ideas, Soviet ideology, Soviet experience."
"This time there's nothing to project, they don't care about it. What they do care about is introducing themselves in the Western media world and challenging the established truths and half-truths of the Western media, of the Western World. It's not about Russia."
Meanwhile, in an ironic bit of timing, the "Russia Today" name is back again. In a bombshell announcement in late December, President Putin issued a decree creating an international broadcasting entity to carry Russia's views to the world, to be called "Russia Today." 
He also liquidated two Soviet-era media outlets, RIA Novosti news agency and Russia Today international radio. Details of the new agency's structure and mission are expected any day.
For the past 20 years, since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia has been struggling to project its ideas to the world. The Sochi Olympics and its opening ceremony were a major step in Putin's revamping of Russia's image. 
Now, with the new "Russia Today," he will have both the message -- and the medium -- to present it. His actions in Ukraine, however, are likely, at a minimum, to overshadow the birth of that new agency and, more likely, tarnish it. 
That's where the crisis in Ukraine stood Thursday after lawmakers in Crimea voted in favor of leaving the country for Russia and putting it to a regional vote in 10 days. 
This act drew widespread condemnation, with Ukrainian interim Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk calling such a referendum "an illegitimate decision."
It was a sentiment echoed by several world leaders, who called the scheduled vote and possible pullout violations of Ukrainian and international law.
"Any discussion about the future of Ukraine must include the legitimate government of Ukraine," said U.S. President Barack Obama. "In 2014, we are well beyond the days when borders can be redrawn over the heads of democratic leaders."
It's not clear how easily the region could split off from Ukraine even if the referendum endorses the move. 
The developments came at a dizzying pace Thursday as Yatsenyuk joined emergency talks in Brussels, Belgium, called by leaders of the European Union who support the Kiev government and want to de-escalate the crisis.
The EU and the United States announced plans to freeze the assets of Viktor Yanukovych, who was ousted as Ukraine's president after he turned his back on a trade deal with the EU in favor of one with Russia.
The rejected trade deal prompted months of protests that culminated in February with bloody street clashes that left dozens dead and Yanukovych out of office. 
Interpol said it is reviewing a request by Ukrainian authorities that would allow for the arrest of Yanukovych on charges of abuse of power and murder, an allegation tied to the death of protesters. 
Moscow has denounced the events that led to Yanukovych's ouster as an illegitimate coup and has refused to recognize the new Ukrainian authorities, putting the two countries on a collision course over control of the Crimea, a peninsula on the Black Sea that has long ties to Russia and has thousands of Russian troops stationed there. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin has insisted he has the right to use military force in Ukraine if necessary to protect ethnic Russians under threat in Crimea. Ukrainian officials say no such threat exists and say Putin is using it as a pretext to control the region. 
As the standoff continued, Ukrainian authorities announced the arrest Thursday of a leader of a pro-Russian movement in the eastern city of Donetsk. Authorities said he is a Ukrainian national named Pavlo Gubarev, a self-proclaimed governor of Donetsk.
The crisis threatens to not only divide Ukraine, but Russia and the West. Those two sides have exchanged barbs and threatened punitive measures against each other in recent days, all while offering divergent views on the situation in Crimea.
Two diplomats at the center of the crisis --  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov -- met face-to-face on Thursday. They agreed to continue talking "over the course of the next hours, the next days'' to try to find a political solution to end the crisis, Kerry told reporters following the meeting. 
The diplomats' bosses, Obama and Putin, talked for an hour Thursday afternoon, with the U.S. president stating "Russia's actions are in violation of Ukraine's sovereignty" and that there is a diplomatic way out, according to the White House. 
Putin's office said the call -- initiated by Obama -- "revealed differences in approaches and assessments of the causes of the crisis and the current situation." He also voiced Russia's view it "cannot ignore calls for help" from eastern and southeastern Ukraine, before concluding that Lavrov and Kerry "will continue intensive contacts."
EU nations, for instance, announced Thursday they will suspend bilateral talks with Russia on visa matters and have threatened travel bans, asset freezes and cancellation of the EU-Russia summit.
"Any further steps by the Russian Federation to destabilize the situation in Ukraine would lead to additional and far reaching consequences for relations in a broad range of economic areas," EU leaders said, having also threatened travels bans on certain Russians and the freezing of some assets. 
The United States has taken action. The State Department has imposed a visa ban on Russian and Ukrainian officials and others that it says are responsible for, or complicit in, threatening Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Obama signed an executive order laying the groundwork for sanctions against individuals and entities responsible for the crisis.
Despite such pressure, Russia hasn't budged, even refusing to engage in direct talks with the new Ukrainian authorities in Kiev. As  his office noted after the Obama call, Putin believes this government "is a result of an unconstitutional revolution" and imposed "illegitimate decisions."
Putin has denied claims by Ukrainian officials and Western diplomats that Russia has sent thousands of troops into the region in recent days. Moscow says the heavily armed troops, who are in uniforms without insignia and who have reportedly encircled Ukrainian bases, are local "self-defense" forces.
Meanwhile, Russia has begun  an air defense drill 280 miles (450 kilometers) from Ukraine's border, reports Russian state-run news agency RIA Novosti. A military spokesman called it "the largest-ever exercise held by air defense units" in the region.
Russian authorities said the drills are part of a regular combat training cycle, according to the news agency. But the move comes a day after the U.S. military announced it was beefing up the number of fighter jets in the Baltics, adding six F-15s to the four participating in a NATO mission in the region.
Amid all the diplomatic wrangling, it is Ukrainians who are most directly affected. And they hardly are speaking with one voice.
Furor in the western part of the country over Yanukovych, his powers and his bringing Ukraine closer to Russia led to his ouster. Now, most people here support the new government and oppose Russian intervention, as well as the prospect of Crimea becoming part of Russia.
The sentiment tends to be very different in Crimea -- which was part of Russia until being given to Ukraine in 1954 by Soviet leader Nikita Kruschev -- and other parts of southern and eastern Ukraine.
Late last month, the parliament in Crimea installed a new, pro-Moscow government late last month -- as armed, pro-Russian men besieged the parliament building -- and does not recognize the authorities in Kiev. 
Citizens will be allowed to vote on March 16 on whether they want an autonomous republic of Crimea within Russia; or within Ukraine.
The autonomous region has a 60% ethnic Russian population, having been part of Russia until it was ceded to Ukraine in 1954 by the Soviet Union. But not everyone may be as keen on coming under Moscow's direct influence. About 25% of the peninsula's population is Ukrainian and about 12% is Crimean Tatar, a predominantly Muslim group.
As riot police looked on, hundreds gathered Thursday in the southern port city of Odessa under the flag of the former Soviet Union calling for unity with Russia. 
"We are all standing here for Russia," one masked protester told CNN's Matthew Chance. "None of us wants to be part of the European Union."
Late Thursday, the management of the hotel in the Crimean capital of Simferopol where CNN has been based told the network to stop broadcasting from there. Other media outlets got the same message, and no reason was given.
Not everyone in this region wants to become part of Russia. Protesters, including one topless woman who was dragged away screaming, railed against the Crimean parliament vote and Putin. But they were drowned out by a heckling, pro-Russian crowd.
Alex Shiroki, from Yalta, said that his boss asked him, point-blank, "Are you for Ukraine or for Russia?" While his boss favors the latter, Shiroki does not, saying he'd probably leave if Crimea ends up splitting from Ukraine.
Michael Crawford, a former British ambassador in Eastern Europe, said that may not happen -- at least easily or peacefully -- even if voters support such a split in the upcoming referendum.
"For Russia to start cherry-picking bits of the former Soviet Union, cranking up referenda in Kazakhstan or Latvia or wherever you like, to try to carve off bits, would be against international law," Crawford said, "And it would be something Vladimir Putin has said he doesn't want to do."
Yatsenyuk said that if Ukraine is broken up, the world will have trouble ever getting another country to give up its nuclear weapons program.
Why? In 1994, Ukraine agreed to give up its Soviet-era nuclear arsenal in return for guarantees -- signed by the United States, the United Kingdom and Russia -- of its territorial integrity and independence.
What happens now to Ukraine "will have an impact on nuclear nonproliferation programs," Yatsenyuk said.
 Anchor quits: I can't be part of network 'that whitewashes' Putin's actions
United States President Barack Obama has now paved the way for imposing economic sanctions against Russia. However, these would be an ineffective and naive response by the U.S. to the crisis in Ukraine.
Economic sanctions have little independent usefulness for the pursuit of non-economic goals. 
This is not to say that sanctions never work, but rather that 95% of cases are unsuccessful. In many cases, sanctions will make the political situation worse.
 Nationalism often makes states and societies willing to endure considerable punishment rather than abandon their national interests. 
Modern states, simply put, are not that fragile -- sanctions can hurt a regime, but they cannot break it. In this way, imposing economic sanctions on a state is similar to backing an angry dog into a corner -- in most cases, the dog will become more vicious, and more defensive.
History might seem to indicate otherwise. Economic sanctions often go hand-in-hand with military intervention, which can sprout misleading conclusions. 
This is true of the sanctions we imposed on Iraq in 1990, when Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait: U.S. military intervention in 1991 was still necessary to force his retreat. Few would say that economic sanctions were successful in kicking him out. Indeed, sanctions continued after the Gulf War with little to no effect, until we finally removed the regime by force in 2003. 
Further, sanctions typically take the form of a great power or coalition seeking to leverage a relatively weak state. 
The suggestion that they might be effective against a major global power like Russia is seriously flawed. Even those who do believe sanctions might work on Iran would likely find the idea of imposing sanctions on Russia to be preposterous.
There are two reasons why. First, even if economic sanctions were an effective form of leverage, Russia can squeeze us almost effectively as we can squeeze them. Sergei Glazyev, a Kremlin economist, simply threatened to not repay debt to U.S. bankers in response to American-imposed sanctions. Between great powers, leverage is a two-way street.
Second, Putin is clearly prepared to incur economic costs to accomplish his objectives in Ukraine. Even without sanctions, the deployment of troops to Crimea has already affected the Russian economy. On March 3 the Moscow stock market fell more than 10% which, as a Reuters article pointed out, wiped nearly $60 billion off the value of Russian companies -- more than the $51 billion spent on the Winter Olympics in Sochi. Meanwhile, Putin's approval ratings remained high. 
By threatening sanctions, Obama is not giving Russia President Vladimir Putin enough credit. Of course the Russian leader has considered this scenario, and it did not deter him from occupying Crimea. 
Furthermore, if we impose sanctions and Russia breaks commitments with U.S. bankers in response, what would be the effect? From a strategic standpoint, none. We certainly wouldn't let Russia use economic threats to dictate our foreign policy, no matter what the economic cost; why should we expect the Russian leadership to budge?
The key to keeping Ukraine unified is to take away support for Russian annexation. This means solidifying support for the new government in Kiev among the Russian population in the East, especially in Crimea.
Obama must encourage the new government in Ukraine to strengthen economic and political ties with the pro-Russian population. This means bringing in election monitors to encourage faith and participation in the new regime, and creating new economic programs to bolster well-being in the eastern part of the country. The U.S. should offer support to fund those efforts. 
The West must remember that in 2011, 70% of Crimeans considered Ukraine their "motherland," despite most of them being Russian-speaking. In other words, until the proposed EU deal went sour, there was little sentiment in Crimea for secession or annexation. A return to these conditions in Ukraine, and not economic sanctions against Russia, is the key to stopping Putin.
Read: Mapping the divisions in Ukraine Zakaria: Sanctions against Russia are just symbolic
Ukrainian security officials are complaining that unknown attackers are interfering with the mobile phone services of members of Ukraine's parliament, making difficult political decisions about what to do about Russia's incursion last week into Crimea that much harder. 
The head of Ukraine's security service said on Tuesday, "I confirm that an IP-telephonic attack is underway on mobile phones of members of Ukrainian parliament for the second day in row." 
This is reminiscent of the Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks on Georgia that preceded Russia's invasion of the country in August 2008. The attacks shut down several websites of Georgia's government including the president's.
While the Kremlin denied any involvement, Georgian officials accused Russia of being behind the attacks. 
Of course, just as some states have exploited offensive cyber capabilities for their own purposes, so too has the United States.
Cyberattacks are double-edged swords. Compared to mounting a conventional war they cost little in terms of blood and treasure. However, in the long run they may have larger unintended consequences if more and more nation states and even private groups use cyberwarfare capabilities. 
The Stuxnet malware that was discovered in 2010 showed the potential of cyberattacks. The joint U.S.-Israeli operation demonstrated how the nuclear enrichment facility of Natanz in Iran could be effectively disrupted using a cyberattack that interfered with Iranian centrifuges' capacity to enrich uranium.
The level of sophistication of the malware was unprecedented and affected the facility even though it was "air gapped" -- disconnected -- from the public Internet.
Last month came the news that Obama national security officials have debated since 2011 whether to target Bashar al-Assad's regime in Syria with cyberattacks. 
The upside: No American boots on the ground and some potentially significant harm could be done to al-Assad's military capabilities.
The downside: What about unknown risks? Might such attacks embolden Syrian allies like Iran and Russia to launch cyber-counterattacks against targets in the U.S.? 
The Stuxnet attack on Iran was not an isolated event. A January report by the Center for Strategic and International Studies points out that Iran "is the likely source of a recent series of incidents aimed at Gulf energy companies, American banks, and Israel. The most important involved a major disruption involving the destruction of data on computers used by (oil giant) Saudi Aramco...." 
The Syrian Electronic Army, a group that supports the al-Assad regime, showed the potential to undermine trust in the financial system when it hacked The Associated Press's Twitter account last year to falsely report an attack on the White House, which caused the Dow Jones to drop by 150 points. 
While technically not comparable to Stuxnet and its effect was only temporary -- the White House quickly refuted the reporting -- it nevertheless demonstrates the existence of a tool for shadowy organizations to influence events that did not exist before.
These recent incidents underscore both the scope and the significant differences among cyberthreats:
-- The actions by the Syrian Electronic Army did not cause a physical effect; they changed data and the content of The Associated Press's reporting.
-- The disruption at Saudi Aramco was due to the destruction of computer data, but it did not cause a physical effect either.
--Stuxnet, on the other hand, had a physical impact making Iranian uranium enrichment centrifuges spin at a rate they were not supposed to.   
The DDoS attacks that appear to be happening in Ukraine right now, and the type of cyberattack that the U.S. launched against Iran that could at some point happen in some other form against Syria, raise significant moral and legal issues.
In many ways the cyberwarfare issue is akin to the issue of the use of armed drones, which greatly reduce the number of deaths that would result from a conventional armed conflict. 
Whoever launches a drone attack or a cyberattack pays no costs of the kind that would typically take place on a conventional battlefield. You can't shoot down a drone pilot or kill a computer technician launching some kind of cyberattack thousands of miles from the intended target.
For this reason drones and cyber capabilities can also make conflict more likely as the barriers to entry to engage in either drone warfare or cyberconflict are so low. Moreover, there is a risk that the use of drones or cyber capabilities can escalate into a conventional armed conflict.
Similarly to the case of armed drones, the United States has had a large lead in its ability to mount effective offensive cyberattacks, but that advantage is unlikely to last. And since the United States is the only superpower and among the most technologically advanced (as well as most vulnerable), it must lead by example and harden cybersecurity at home and contribute to international agreements to govern the use of these powerful new tools.
These tools that will only get more powerful as the world becomes more connected and ever-more dependent on computers.
Crimea's parliament has voted to secede from Ukraine and join Russia, and has scheduled a referendum for its residents to decide whether to stay or go. It is one of the biggest developments in the fast-moving crisis in Ukraine. 
The voters deciding Crimea's future would be the residents of that region. Crimea has a population of about 2 million. 
Crimea is known as a pro-Russian area, but it is not without its diversity. 
The autonomous region has a 60% ethnic Russian population, having been part of Russia until it was ceded to Ukraine in 1954 by the Soviet Union.
But not everyone may be as keen on coming under Moscow's direct influence. A quarter of the peninsula's population is Ukrainian and about 12% Crimean Tatars, a predominantly Muslim group.
While the Crimean parliament voted to hold the referendum, at the federal level, Ukrainian leaders say a referendum is illegal. 
It's an "illegitimate decision," interim Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk said Thursday. "Crimea was, is, and will be an integral part of Ukraine."
Justice Minister Pavlo Petrenko said the Crimean parliament's decision is illegal because under the constitution, only national referendums are permitted.
The Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe has sent a military observer mission to Ukraine, but it can only expand its mission to monitor the vote if the Ukrainian government invites it to. 
See above. Even if the vote goes as planned, its legitimacy will continue to be questioned. 
Michael Crawford, a former British ambassador in Eastern Europe, cautioned that whatever the result of the vote, it may be meaningless.
"It does not follow that if Crimea votes to join Russia, that anyone will accept it," he said.
"For Russia to start cherry-picking bits of the former Soviet Union, cranking up referenda in Kazakhstan or Latvia or wherever you like, to try to carve off bits, would be against international law, and it would be something (that Russian President) Vladimir Putin has said he doesn't want to do."
In short, it is not clear how easily Crimea could secede from Ukraine and join Russia. 
At first glance, it may appear that many Crimeans would get what they want and Russia would gain a territory, but the benefits are not so clear-cut. 
"While separatism may seem emotionally gratifying to some (Crimean) residents, the practical results seen elsewhere, especially in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, have been economic isolation and a heightened dependence on Russia," Michael Hikari Cecire, an expert on the region, wrote recently. South Ossetia and Abkhazia are two separatist regions of Georgia that Russia occupied in 2008.
For Russia, peeling off a slice of territory from Ukraine isn't productive, Cecire wrote. Its goal is to get all of Ukraine under its influence.
Taking steps toward separatism has only deepened the crisis, as Russian intervention has galvanized anti-Russian sentiment in other parts of Ukraine. 
The referendum, scheduled for March 16, will probably just add fuel to the fire. 
All the self-righteous huffing and puffing in Washington over Ukraine jars on European and especially Russian ears after the multiple U.S.-led invasions and interventions in other people's countries of recent years. It's difficult to say what is more astonishing: the double standards exhibited by the White House, or the apparent total lack of self-awareness of U.S. officials.
Secretary of State John Kerry risked utter ridicule when he declared it unacceptable to invade another country on a "completely trumped-up pretext," or just because you don't like its current leadership. Iraq in 2003 springs instantly to mind. This is exactly what George W. Bush and Tony Blair did when they "trumped up" the supposed threat posed by the hated Saddam Hussein's fabled weapons of mass destruction. 
Like Saddam, the Taliban leadership in place in Afghanistan in 2001 was deeply objectionable. But instead of just going after Osama bin Laden and his al Qaeda training camps after the 9/11 attacks, Bush (again abetted by Blair) opted for full-scale regime change. The lamentable consequences of that decision are still being felt 13 years later, not least by Afghan civilians who have been dying in ever greater numbers as the final Nato withdrawal approaches.
U.S. President Barack Obama, a former law professor who should know better, has charged Vladimir Putin, his  Russian counterpart, with violating Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, in breach of international law. 
But it is Obama, following in Bush's footsteps, who has repeatedly and cynically flouted international law by launching or backing myriad armed attacks on foreign soil, in Libya, Somalia, Yemen and Pakistan to name a few, without U.N. security council authorization. It is Obama's administration which continues to undermine international law by refusing to join or recognize the International Criminal Court, the most important instrument of international justice to have been developed since 1945.
And it is Obama's State Department, principally in the person of Assistant Secretary of State Victoria Nuland, that fatally overplayed its hand in the run-up to last month's second Ukraine revolution. Nuland's infamous "f**k the EU" comment revealed the extent to which Washington was recklessly maneuvering to undermine Ukraine's elected pro-Russian president, Viktor Yanukovych, by backing the Kiev street protesters' demands.
The EU had wanted to take things more gradually, for fear of provoking the very Russian reaction to which the U.S. now so strongly objects. When the foreign ministers of Germany, France and Poland, acting for the EU, negotiated a compromise agreement on February 22 that envisaged early elections, the crisis appeared to have been defused. Russia did not like the deal, but seemed ready to go along.
But within 24 hours, the opposition had torn up the agreement. It forced Yanukovych from power and sacked the government. To alarm in Moscow, where nightmarish World War II memories linger, Ukrainian neo-fascists were among those who seized control. They are now part of the new government in Kiev. 
The U.S. almost immediately gave its blessing to what the Kremlin later described as a "coup d'etat" while the EU, knowing this was what Washington wanted, just looked on. Little wonder the Russians were furious at what they saw as a western double cross.
Sergei Lavrov, the Russian Foreign Minister, reflected these worries when he voiced "most serious concern" over Ukraine in phone calls to the French, German and Polish foreign ministers. "The opposition not only has failed to fulfil a single one of its obligations but is already presenting new demands all the time, following the lead of armed extremists and pogromists whose actions pose a direct threat to Ukraine's sovereignty and constitutional order,'' Lavrov said. But it was already too late. 
Obama and Kerry seem to have calmed down a little since the crisis first broke. The self-righteous hyperbole about international rights is less evident, though it has not disappeared entirely. Obama has heard the many voices in the U.S. and beyond terming this the worst east-west crisis since the end of the Cold War -- and as the biggest foreign test of his presidency.
So now he's doing what he does best: talking. In his latest phone call to Putin, on Thursday this week, Obama put forward a plan to resolve the stand-off diplomatically. It includes direct talks between Moscow and Kiev, the return of Russian troops to their bases, and the deployment of international observers to ensure the rights of all ethnic groups, including Crimean Russians, are respected.
But don't hold your breath. Putin is in no hurry to back off or back down. 
He has his tail up after a fortnight in which he exposed the hypocrisy and hollowness of much of western policy and politicians. His behavior, especially in Crimea, has been dangerous, wrong-headed and irresponsible in the extreme. In many ways, Putin is an unredeemed Cold War throwback. He is definitely not the sort of chap one would invite round for dinner, as a former British diplomat commented. The crisis could still explode in his and everyone else's face. But it was not unprovoked.
And the Russian leader has an eye for precedent. Similar battles over so-called "frozen conflicts" and the rights of isolated ethnic groups loom elsewhere on Russia's periphery, in Georgia, Moldova, Armenia, Nagorno-Karabakh, and maybe Belarus and the Baltic states too. Putin is putting down a marker, even as he plays Obama and Kerry for fools.
Whatever they think in Washington, and whatever the financial markets say, it's working for him personally. Latest opinion polls in Russia show Putin's popularity soaring. One of these days western leaders will drop the pious cant, learn to stop under-estimating him, and recognize Russia's leader-for-life as the canny, very dangerous, utterly unscrupulous opponent he is.
Unidentified men attack journalists, brandishing guns, and snatch cameras. Local television channels are suddenly blocked or replaced. An international news organization is told by a hotel manager to stop broadcasting.
These are just some tales from the field in Crimea, the embattled Ukrainian peninsula that's at the heart of the struggle between Moscow, Kiev and the West.
As the world watches a region on the brink of war, stories of harassment and internal pressures are making headlines. A U.N. envoy was threatened by armed men and driven out of the country. A Ukrainian worker must think carefully before answering his boss' question: "Are you for Ukraine or for Russia?" European military observers, invited by the Ukrainian government, are stopped at a checkpoint by armed and masked men, one of whom says in Russian: "I've been ordered by the government of Crimea not to let anyone in." 
It's on the media to help provide an accurate picture of what's happening on the ground in Crimea. And now that picture is becoming more difficult to paint. Some would say, what's happening, is downright disturbing. 
A security camera in Simferopol, Crimea's capital, captured the image of a Bulgarian freelance journalist and his assistant being attacked. 
CNN's Michael Holmes said the two were spotted as they filmed masked men "removing TV equipment from another television outfit and basically stealing it." When those men saw that they were being filmed, Holmes learned, they pounced -- wrestling the journalist to the ground, snatching the equipment and at one point even holding a gun to the journalist's head. 
In signs that the pro-Russian Crimean authorities are clamping down on dissent within the peninsula, at least two Ukrainian channels, 1+1 and Channel 5, have been blocked from ground-based broadcasting. The head of 1+1 told CNN that Russian state TV outlet Channel One is now broadcasting on its frequency.
"Tensions are high, even where we are at this hotel," CNN's Ann Coren told Wolf Blitzer during a Thursday broadcast from the confines of a hotel room. "Management came and approached us and told us that we are no longer allowed to broadcast from this hotel."
The assumption, she said, is that the hotel is kowtowing to outside forces, either the Crimean government, which is known to be pro-Russian, or local militia. CNN has not shied away from reporting about Russian forces being on the ground in Crimea, which Russian President Vladimir Putin denies, and that may have ruffled feathers. 
"We've been operating here for over a week -- happily, no problems whatsoever. But obviously somebody is putting pressure on the manager of this hotel and basically threatening to shut us down and kick us out," Coren said. "Hopefully, hopefully, tomorrow we'll still be here." 
A March 16 referendum on whether the Crimea Peninsula should rejoin Russia has become the focus of the Ukraine crisis.
Like nearly every aspect of the conflict, the vote planned by Crimea's regional parliament evokes widely differing interpretations of its legitimacy and importance.
Here are some of the biggest questions about the issue, with a look at how key players are weighing in:
Voters in the autonomous Ukrainian region of about 2 million people will choose between remaining part of the former Soviet territory or becoming part of neighboring Russia.
The referendum follows the lightning chain of events in Ukraine in previous weeks that included increasingly violent protests against the government, the country's pro-Russian President fleeing across the border, and then Russian troops seizing what amounts to military control of Crimea -- where Russia's Black Sea fleet is based.
By unanimously backing the referendum, the Crimean parliament signaled the intentions of regional leaders as well as Russia to restore the territory to Moscow's control.
Ukraine's interim government insists Crimea is part of the country, a stance supported by the United States and its European allies.
In the Ukraine, the interim government rejects the referendum as unconstitutional, while many in the pro-Russian Crimea region desire the chance to again align with Moscow.
Russia says the political upheaval in Ukraine that forced out President Viktor Yanukovych ended the Kiev government's constitutional authority.
After a phone conversation Thursday between President Barack Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin, the Kremlin said Putin made the point in the call that the ousting of Yanukovych was an "anti-constitutional coup."
Now, it says, the people of Crimea should have the right to decide their future in the same way as other autonomous regions, such as Kosovo's breakaway from Serbia.
Obama, however, declared Thursday that "the proposed referendum on the future of Crimea would violate the Ukrainian constitution and violate international law."
Samantha Power, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, told CNN on Thursday that the Ukrainian constitution requires territorial referendums to be held "across the entirety of Ukraine and not just in a sub-region like this."
She argued that Yanukovych fled on his own volition, and that constitutional authority agreed to in a February 21 deal he reached with opposition leaders and European envoys remained in effect.
Under that agreement, Ukraine will elect a new government on May 25 for the entire country, including Crimea.
Obama's quick condemnation of a Crimean referendum showed the United States expects the outcome to favor realigning with Russia.
The autonomous region has a 60% ethnic Russian population, having been part of Russia until it was ceded to Ukraine in 1954 by the Soviet Union.
While it would still remain an autonomous region in theory, Crimea would effectively come under the direct influence of Russia once again.
Power said that if the referendum goes forward, the result would get little recognition beyond Russia.
That didn't matter in 2008 when Russia under Putin sent troops into neighboring Georgia, another former Soviet territory, to back autonomy for the pro-Russian regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. 
More than five years later, both territories effectively annexed with Russian forces still present.
Asked if Crimea and perhaps other parts of eastern and southern Ukraine that favor Russia might end up the same, Power said: "I think it's maybe not helpful to talk about precedents."
"We are seeking to create a future where the past is not replicated here in Ukraine, and the broad unity of the international community I think is impressive and formidable," she added.
For Russia, the motivation is ensuring control of its Black Sea fleet based in Sevastopol as well as its economic influence in Ukraine and other former Soviet territories and satellites. 
The Crimean referendum would provide an electoral justification for what amounts to a land grab amid Ukraine's political upheaval.
Obama acknowledged Russia had legitimate concerns that needed to be part of a solution, such as guarantees it could maintain the Sevastopol-based naval fleet in Ukraine.
However, his call for Russian troops in Crimea to return to barracks and negotiations between Russia and Ukraine on a solution has so far yielded little progress. 
Both the United States and European Union have threatened sanctions if no significant progress occurs soon, but major economic ties between Russia and European powers such as Germany raise questions about the strength of any EU steps.
CNN's Fareed Zakaria said Putin may get his wish with Crimea, but at a cost.
"They got Crimea, but they've scared off Ukraine," he said. "And, most importantly, the people of Ukraine are now deeply suspicious of Russia. The people in Poland and Hungary and the Czech Republic, or probably in places like Kazakhstan, are all now fearful."
President Putin's endgame in Crimea is now clear -- and the West has only a few days to act. 
On Thursday, the Crimean parliament voted 78-0 to hold a referendum on March 16. The main question will ask whether voters want the region to secede from Ukraine and become part of Russia. Previously, a referendum had been scheduled for March 30 on the less politically charged question of whether Crimea should have greater autonomy within Ukraine. 
If, as expected, a majority endorses secession, the story will change overnight from one about Russia's unprovoked military invasion to one about a minority's right to self-determination. That is the Kremlin's plan.
European leaders, already having trouble agreeing on a response to naked aggression, will find it much harder to oppose the popular will of the Crimean people. At that point, risky actions to force Crimea back into Ukraine will become difficult for Western politicians to explain to their own domestic voters. 
The legal status of the planned referendum is more than murky. Ukrainian acting president Oleksandr Turchynov has called it a "farce" and a "crime against the nation." But, for democratic politicians -- and the societies they represent -- going against a majority vote is never easy. 
If Russia can change the subject in this way, Crimean secession will become an established fact. Putin, who assured journalists on Tuesday that Russia did not mean to annex Crimea, will then be able to claim that he was "forced to yield to the will of the people."
With just a few days to turn the situation around, temporizing needs to stop. Allowing Russia "more time" at this point, as some European leaders have proposed, is exactly what the West should not do. That Russia's Crimean clients have moved the referendum date forward suggests nervousness in Moscow -- and a recognition that time is of the essence. 
In the remaining time before March 16, the West must convince both the Kremlin-connected Russian elite and the population of Crimea that the region's secession to Russia would be a mistake. Direct threats are counterproductive, but clearly and calmly articulating the consequences of such a move can produce results. 
First, all the European Union states plus the United States should make absolutely clear that they will not recognize the results of a referendum held while armed bands of "self-defense forces" roam Crimea. Any decision to secede that results from such a referendum will be considered illegitimate. 
To increase Moscow's isolation, it is worth exploring whether a large majority would support a resolution in the United Nations General Assembly -- of course, Russia would veto in the Security Council -- reasserting the inviolability of borders in this case. 
Second, the EU and U.S. should announce that economic relations would be frozen between the West and a Crimea in legal limbo following secession. In part, this freeze would be enforced by the markets themselves. 
Crimea's tourism industry would have to forget about attracting Western visitors to the region's beaches. International investors would demand huge risk premiums. But Western restrictions on investment and trade with Crimea could amplify the effect. The region's agricultural produce could be banned from European and Ukrainian markets. 
Crimeans must be helped to understand the choice they face: between becoming another Abkhazia -- a failed statelet on intravenous drip from Moscow -- or a flourishing region within the new, broader Europe. The EU should quickly earmark some portion of the 11 billion euros already promised to Ukraine for projects to develop Crimea's economy if it remains Ukrainian. 
Third, the United States should work out a set of restrictions to place on Russian banks and corporations that do business in a Crimea that has illegally seceded. As economist Anders Aslund has pointed out, existing rules against money laundering could be enforced more rigorously against various Russian entities.  
All of this needs to be done rapidly. While Washington has reacted quickly as the crisis unfolded, the EU has suffered from its chronic lack of central decision-making authority. The next few days constitute a test. 
If Brussels cannot forge a strong, common position in time, then management of future crises will simply revert to the foreign ministries of Germany, France, and Britain, with the EU's foreign policy role narrowed to coordinating long-term policies. 
While spelling out the costs that threaten the Crimean population and the Russian political elite, Western leaders must continue to devise "off-ramps" to outcomes that Putin could conceivably accept, but that, nevertheless, will not be seen as rewarding aggression.
The West can call for a significant increase in Crimea's political autonomy within Ukraine, negotiated with Kiev. U.S. and European leaders should also speak out far more audibly in favor of minority language and cultural rights. They should have responded with outrage when the Rada, Ukraine's parliament, canceled the status of Russian as an official language and should now praise the promised veto of this law. 
It may still be possible to prevent the illegal annexation of Crimea. Putin is sensitive to the danger of splits within his political elite. The West must show him that he has underestimated the extent of political isolation and economic disruption that annexation would cause. It must work on winning the hearts and minds of the Crimean population. The clock is ticking. 
In the world of military strategy, every contingency must be examined, especially the worst-case scenario.
Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency, made that clear when he told National Public Radio in an interview broadcast Friday how U.S. officials must plan for the possibility that Vladimir Putin's Russia has access to American battle plans and other secrets possibly taken by classified leaker Edward Snowden.
"If I'm concerned about anything, I'm concerned about defense capabilities that he may have stolen from where he worked, and does that knowledge then get into the hands of our adversaries X in this case, of course, Russia," Flynn said of the former National Security Agency contractor who fled to Moscow to seek asylum.
A hero to some and traitor to others, Snowden last year disclosed details of the vast U.S. surveillance network put in place after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, including how the government keeps records on billions of phone calls for possible use in terrorism investigations.
Flynn said he worried about what else Snowden knows, and how Russia -- where Snowden lives now -- may have access to the documents. He cited intelligence capabilities, operational capabilities, technology and weapons systems as potential subjects of so far unpublicized information Snowden -- and Russia -- may have.
"We really don't know" what Snowden's got, Flynn said, adding that "we have to assume the worst case and then begin to make some recommendations to our leadership about how do we mitigate some of the risks that may come from what may have been compromised."
He added that the intelligence community also must assume that Russia either already has the information taken by Snowden or is trying to get it, adding "that would be very serious."
Because of the possibility, "we have to make some judgments, recommendations about ... how to respond to that," Flynn said.
"We're going to be dealing with this for many, many years," he noted, saying procedures, techniques and tactics currently in use may have to be changed.
Flynn spoke as Putin has moved troops into the Crimea Peninsula of Ukraine in a showdown with the United States and its European allies over the former Soviet region's independence.
In January, he and Director of National Intelligence James Clapper told the Senate Intelligence Committee that the Snowden leaks already caused serious damage to U.S. security.
"What Snowden has stolen and exposed has gone way, way beyond his professed concerns with so-called domestic surveillance programs," Clapper said then. "As a result, we've lost critical foreign intelligence collection sources, including some shared with us by valued partners."
Terrorists and other adversaries of America were "going to school on U.S. intelligence sources' methods and trade craft, and the insights that they are gaining are making our job much, much harder," Clapper told the committee.
"Snowden claims that he's won and that his mission is accomplished," Clapper also noted. "If that is so, I call on him and his accomplices to facilitate the return of the remaining stolen documents that have not yet been exposed to prevent even more damage to U.S. security."
Flynn told the panel that "the greatest cost that is unknown today but that we will likely face is the cost of human lives on tomorrow's battlefield or in some place where we will put our military forces when we ask them to go into harm's way."
One moment Monday morning, a Ukrainian flag still was flying over a military base in Ukraine's Crimea region -- the base's commander reportedly kidnapped by pro-Russian troops the day before. 
Later Monday, masked troops were at the base, and the Ukrainian flag was gone.
The bloodless incursion by apparently pro-Russian forces onto the Ukrainian base in the city of Bakhchisaray -- amid disputed accounts over whether the base commander had switched sides -- was one of the latest encounters between pro-Moscow troops who are consolidating their hold on the Black Sea peninsula and Ukrainian forces who still are there.
The incident at the base came a day after German Chancellor Angela Merkel bluntly told Russian President Vladimir Putin by phone the Moscow-backed referendum on whether Crimea should join Russia is illegal and would violate Ukraine's constitution if it goes ahead on March 16.
Putin has defended breakaway moves by pro-Russian leaders in Crimea, where Russian forces have been tightening their grip on a region that has been the epicenter of a battle for influence among Moscow, Kiev and the West since Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych's ouster last month. 
Pro-Russian forces last week pushed into the autonomous region in a bloodless siege, prompting criticism from Western nations and Ukraine's interim government.
Moscow has denounced the events that led to Yanukovych's ouster as an illegitimate coup and has refused to recognize the new Ukrainian authorities, putting the two countries on a collision course over control of Crimea, which has longstanding ties to Russia and has thousands of Russian troops stationed there.
Putin has said Russia has the right to protect Russians living in the former Soviet republic. 
As tensions mount, Ukraine's armed forces carried out training exercises to test their readiness, the country's Defense Ministry said. Citing televised comments made by Defense Minister Ihor Tenyukh on Sunday, it said the army was not calling for full mobilization, as diplomacy was still the preferred method to resolve the crisis.
The Prime Minister of the autonomous region, Sergey Aksenev, was recently appointed commander-in-chief by the region's parliament, giving him the power to form an army, government spokeswoman Ekaterina Polonchuk told CNN.
Aksenev told the Interfax news agency that the decision to form a military stems from "the presence of illegal armed groups in the territory of Crimea," comments confirmed to CNN by Polonchuk. So far, it appears a small number of men have joined the new army.
Monday's appearance of masked troops at the Bakhchisaray base came a day after a pro-Russian group appeared to have kidnapped base commander Vladimir Sadovnik at a checkpoint, according to the Ukrainian military.
When a CNN crew visited the base Monday morning, the Ukrainian military was in charge, but Sadovnik still was missing. The deputy commander said that if "they to try blackmail us into giving up the base, it won't happen."
Three hours later, the crew returned to the base, and the Ukrainian flag was no longer flying there. Masked gunmen were on the property, looking at the crew from the other side of a fence.
The deputy commander told CNN said 15 gunmen came to the base with Sadovnik, and that the gunmen were planning to take vehicles from the base. CNN was not allowed inside.
What Sadovnik did upon his return is disputed. Ukrainian Defense Ministry spokesman Vladislav Seleznyov said Sadovnik had switched allegiance and persuaded some of the Ukrainian troops there to join him.
Sadovnik and the men who joined him loaded trucks with fuel, radios and other goods to take away from the base, according to Seleznyov.
But Sadovnik, talking later to CNN by phone, denied Seleznyov's account. He said his kidnappers allowed him to return to the base, and that he still was loyal to Ukraine.
He said pro-Russian forces did ask Ukrainian troops at the base to change sides Monday, but that he did no such thing. He said he still was at the base; CNN couldn't immediately verify his location.
The control of base wasn't immediately clear Monday.  Seleznyov said both Ukrainian and Russian flags were flying at the base late Monday afternoon.
Putin earlier this month secured permission from his parliament to use military force to protect Russian citizens in Ukraine. The move came days after Yanukovych's flight from the country. Yanukovych was ousted after three months of protests against his decision to spurn a free trade deal with the European Union and turn toward closer ties with Moscow.
At the United Nations, French Ambassador Gerard Araud told reporters the situation in Crimea "is worsening by the day." Russian troops are being reinforced and Moscow appears ready to annex the region, he said after a Security Council session Monday afternoon.
"(The session) was a call to the Russians: We want to negotiate. We want a political settlement. Please don't worsen this crisis," Araud said. But he added, "The Russians are not showing any signal that they are listening to us -- not only to the Security Council, but to all the heads of state and government." 
And British Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant said no "free and fair" vote could be held "while Crimea is under the illegal control of Russian troops and armed militias who are denying access to international monitors." 
"In the light of these concerns, if the referendum goes ahead on the 16th of March, its results must be considered illegal and illegitimate by all nations," Grant said.
Earlier, Ukraine's Defense Ministry said a group of about 20 pro-Russian activists from the so-called Crimea self-defense squads had broken into the military hospital in the region's main administrative city, Simferopol, and thrown out its chief.
In a later statement, it said the hospital chief was back at work after negotiations but added the premises were being blockaded by the activists.
However a CNN team that traveled to the hospital found it very quiet, with no one around. A guard on duty said he had not heard or seen anything unusual and that there was no senior official to speak with as Monday was a public holiday.
In the course of the rapidly changing events of the past week, a propaganda war over Ukraine has quickly developed as each side seeks to strengthen its stance.
Scenes of balaclava-wearing men without insignia patrolling streets or other premises have now become a familiar sight in the region.
Reports of confrontations weren't limited to Crimea. In the eastern mainland Ukrainian city of Lugansk, just a few kilometers west of the Russian border, 50 to 60 pro-Russian activists burst into an IRTA TV station building on Monday, editor-in-chief Katerina Rakova said.
The intruders initially threatened to burn the building if they weren't allowed to broadcast. But they eventually left, warning that they would return if they are dissatisfied with the station's news broadcasts about pro-Russian demonstrations in Lugansk, Rakova said.
Russia, meanwhile, accused far-right groups Monday of "conniving" with the new authorities in Ukraine.
In a statement, the Russian Foreign Ministry condemned "lawlessness" in eastern Ukraine and accused the West of being silent over violence and detentions taking place against Russian citizens, such as one incident last week when it said masked gunmen fired on and injured peaceful protesters.
On Monday afternoon, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he was "increasingly alarmed" by developments in Ukraine.
"Recent events in Crimea in particular have only served to deepen the crisis.  As tensions and mistrust are growing, I urge all sides to refrain from hasty actions and provocative rhetoric," he said.  
Tensions between the United States and Russia over the crisis in Crimea have exploded into an open row as Russia rejects U.S. diplomatic efforts to solve the impasse.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Monday that U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry postponed a face-to-face meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin to discuss American proposals, which Moscow has effectively rejected, on solving the crisis.
The meeting, which Russia said was supposed to happen Monday, would have marked the highest-level contact between the two countries since Russian troops took up positions in Crimea, and would have come ahead of Sunday's potentially explosive vote on whether Crimea should split from Ukraine and join Russia.
But Kerry told Lavrov he needed to know Moscow would engage seriously on a diplomatic solution before meeting with the Russian leader. He also wanted to see and end to Russia's  "provocative steps" before traveling to Russia. 
Relations between Russia and the West have grown increasingly tense since Russian soldiers seized effective control of the pro-Russian region. The United States and other European powers have threatened possible sanctions in response to Russia's moves, but Moscow has shown little sign of backing down. 
A senior U.S. official said a proposal, which Kerry presented to Lavrov in Paris on Wednesday, summarized several rounds of talks Kerry and his counterparts from Britain, France and Germany held separately with Lavrov and Ukraine's foreign minister. Because Lavrov was not authorized to negotiate in Paris, Kerry gave him the list of ideas to take back to Putin. 
According to the senior U.S. official, the Kerry proposal calls for Russian troops to return to their barracks and for the disarming of so-called "self-defense" militias in Crimea who, although they don't wear insignia, are believed to be Russian. International monitors would be dispatched to Crimea and other parts of Ukraine as part of the proposed plan. 
Washington also insisted Moscow drop plans in the Duma to annex Crimea and end its support for next Sunday's referendum by Crimeans to join Russia. The U.S. also wants Russia to support a deal between the new Ukrainian government and the International Monetary Fund on a program to shore up the country's fragile economy. 
The plan hinges on talks between Russia and Ukraine on ending the crisis.  Kerry and the British, French and German foreign ministers spent the better part of Wednesday trying unsuccessfully to get Lavrov to meet with Ukraine's foreign minister, who flew on Kerry's plane from Paris to Kiev.  
Because Russia does not recognize the new Ukrainian government, Lavrov was reluctant to sit down with the foreign minister for direct talks. 
U.S. and its European allies have proposed the two sides could talk as part of a "contact group" which also includes the U.S., Britain, France and Germany
The Kerry plan also integrated some elements of the February 21 deal to end the standoff between protestors in Kiev and former President Viktor Yanukovich. Even though Moscow never joined Germany, Poland, and the United Kingdom in signing the pact, it had some concessions to Russia, including a national unity government, a return to the constitution and early elections.  
On Friday, U.S. President Barack Obama and President Putin spoke by phone and agreed that Kerry and Lavrov will continue talking to try and find a diplomatic solution to the crisis.  Later that day, Lavrov called Kerry and invited him to Sochi for a meeting with Putin on Monday.  Kerry said he would think about it, but that disturbing developments on the ground in Ukraine and Crimea were closing the space for diplomacy.
When they spoke again on Saturday, Kerry told Lavrov he wasn't ready to meet with Putin. The two of them needed to make more progress on their own talks, Kerry said. Furthermore,  Kerry said Russian military moves on the ground and discussions about the referendum in Crimea and the Duma's plans to annex the region would make negotiations difficult. 
Kerry sent a refined proposal to Lavrov after that Saturday phone call, described as a list of questions to get a better understanding of the Russian position. Lavrov traveled to Sochi on Sunday to discuss the one-and-a-half page document with Putin. 
The official said that the U.S. government has yet to receive an official answer from Moscow about the ideas. 
But Russia seems uninterested in the U.S. concept of sitting down with the Ukrainian government. 
In a televised meeting with Putin Monday, Lavrov said even Kerry's revised proposal still fell short and "raises many questions on our side" because the starting point is acceptance of the "coup d'etat" that overthrew Yanukovich.
"The document contains an approach which doesn't quite suit us, as the entire wording suggests there is a conflict between Russia and Ukraine," Lavrov said, adding that Russia would be submitting counterproposals to the American plan. 
"We prepared, together with members of the Russian Security Council, our counterproposals. They aim to resolve the situation on the basis of international law and take into account the interests of all Ukrainians without exception," he said.
The Obama administration seems reluctant for Kerry to travel to Russia for a meeting with Putin that could deliver very little. 
Kerry is prepared to take part in talks "if and when we see concrete evidence that Russia is prepared to engage" with Washington's proposals, State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said, adding that Russia must engage in talks with the Ukrainians.
"The point is we're not just going to walk into something, where they're just going to say `no, no, no' to everything and we've traveled all the way there. We're not going to do that," another senior U.S. official added. 
The White House said President Obama would meet Ukraine's new prime minister in Washington on Wednesday, warning Moscow would face even more outside pressure if it took any further steps toward annexing Crimea.
The American bears a broad grin, flashing an "OK" sign to the Russian support team tending to him after his descent from space. It's not exactly the image of two countries at extreme odds over the Ukraine crisis. 
But in the world of U.S.-Russian relations, space is impervious, as demonstrated by the joint effort to bring American astronaut Mike Hopkins and his cosmonaut counterparts, Soyuz Cmdr. Oleg Kotov, a native of Crimea, and fellow flight engineer Sergey Ryazanskiy, home to Earth. 
The Soyuz TMA-10 spacecraft landed in Kazakhstan early Tuesday after the trio spent more than five months aboard the International Space Station, leaving the multinational astronaut delegation of Japan's Koichi Wakata, America's Rick Mastracchio and Russia's Mikhail Tyurin to finish the orbital laboratory's Expedition 39. 
Those three are expected to return home in mid-May, after being joined by another international team: Steve Swanson (U.S.), Alexander Skvortsov (Russia) and Oleg Artemyev (Latvia) are in Star City, Russia, training for their March 25 launch from Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan, NASA says.
Kotov is a space veteran returning from his third mission and 526th day in space. Hopkins and Ryazanskiy are rookies. This mission marked their first 166 days in space, NASA says. 
Hopkins conducted a pair of U.S. spacewalks for a total 12 hours and 58 minutes. Ryazanskiy conducted three Russian spacewalks during his mission working outside the station for 20 hours and five minutes.
On Earth, the United States may be trading bitter accusations with Russia over Ukraine, but in space, it's a different story. 
The space collaboration between the two nations has survived other diplomatic kerfuffles -- most recently, the war in Syria and asylum for NSA leaker Edward Snowden -- and there's no need to worry, NASA says. 
"We do not expect the current Russia-Ukraine situation to have any impact on our civil space cooperation with Russia, including our partnership on the International Space Station program," said Allard Beutel, a NASA spokesman, pointing out that it's in both countries' best interests not to disrupt "operations that have maintained continuous human presence on orbit for over a decade." 
Beutel added, "NASA and its Russian counterpart, Roscosmos, have maintained a professional, beneficial and collegial working relationship through the various ups and downs of the broader U.S.-Russia relationship and we expect that to continue." 
The two nations can't afford temporary tussles to upend a costly relationship -- one that James Oberg, a former space engineer, describes as "reluctant co-dependency."
In 2011, NASA retired its space shuttle fleet, its only means of getting to and from the station. Now, Russian Soyuz capsules ferry U.S. astronauts and cosmonauts, together with supplies that can fit in the smaller craft.
In turn, the United States brings to the table technology far more advanced than Russia's capabilities, Oberg told Politico. 
At the same time, many of the Russian systems are more reliable because they are simpler and have been operating longer, Leroy Chiao, former NASA astronaut and International Space Station commander, told CNN. 
The space station itself has an intricate blend of both countries' contributions -- from U.S. solar arrays and power systems to Russian core life-support systems, to a navigation system that comes from both countries, he said. 
Americans and Russians train on each other's systems, but one country can't run the station alone, he said. 
The mission control centers in Houston and Korolyov, near Moscow, have to coordinate commands sent to the station, he said. 
"We need each other to operate the station," Chiao said. "Otherwise we run the risk of losing that asset."
According to a new deal NASA signed with the Russian space agency, the United States will pay Russia $71 million to ferry each astronaut to the space station.
The emergence of private companies in the space transport business may change the game.
NASA has a $1.6 billion contract with SpaceX to fly at least 12 cargo resupply missions to the space station, and a $1.9 billion contract with Orbital Sciences for eight such missions.
SpaceX is gearing up for its third commercial resupply mission this month; Orbital Sciences completed its first in February. 
As for transporting astronauts, NASA said in November that it's seeking to partner with U.S. companies for human trips to the station as well, by 2017. That could end U.S. reliance on Russia for space voyages. 
But for now, experts say, the U.S.-Russia relationship on space remains a marriage of convenience.
It was 4am when, still half asleep, we bundled ourselves into a van and headed to the southern Ukraine city of Kherson.
We had spent the night in Odessa, famous for its giant stairway featured in Sergei Eisenstein's 1925 silent film, "Battleship Potemkin."
And while we hadn't awoken before the sparrows just to go sightseeing, our diligent fixers unexpectedly took us on a tour of the apparent back streets of Odessa. 
They assured us it was the quickest way out of town, but I was anxious because we had just three and a half hours to reach Kherson where we'd be joining the 43 observers from the Organization For Security and Cooperation (OSCE) international observer team as they attempted to cross into Crimea.
The delegates were all from various militaries. Punctuality had been drilled into them. They would not wait for a late television crew, even if we had been given exclusive access to their convoy.
When we arrived in Kherson, the OSCE observers were getting a briefing about their planned route to Crimea. 
No, they did not like their chances of getting through, but it was their mission to try.
For almost three hours, we drove in a police-escorted convoy through sparse countryside and dilapidated Soviet-era towns. 
It was a joy to see the Black Sea but at the same time, I felt some trepidation as it indicated we were approaching the Chongar checkpoint and we really didn't know what to expect.
We knew the men guarding the checkpoints up ahead were armed with assault rifles. The OSCE delegates we were travelling with were not carrying weapons and the Crimean authorities had made it clear they regarded any attempts by the OSCE to enter the peninsula as a provocation.
The team of observers had already been blocked on a different route to Crimea the previous day. This was their second attempt. 
One delegate told me he was anxious about trying again. Another said the delegation needed to be more forceful this time.
At first our convoy was met with celebratory scenes of people waving Ukrainian flags but the atmosphere changed further down the road as we approached the Chongar roadblock.
The men guarding it were indeed armed and wore balaclavas and military fatigues with no insignia. They stood below Russian flags. 
While the armed guards looked threatening, they were remarkably calm as they faced not only repeated demands from the OSCE observers but were taunted by pro-Ukrainian protesters who had followed our convoy.
"This is our country. We will kill you," shouted a particularly irate elderly man. 
A shake of the head was the only response he got from one of the masked guards.
For two hours, the OSCE officials repeatedly pressed their case, insisting they had a right to enter Crimea, but eventually they decided their efforts were futile. 
The armed men would not budge. The weather was turning foul. The delegates turned their convoy around and headed back to Kherson to assess their next move.
We, however, stayed on. Our man and wife fixer team had suggested they try to get us into Crimea.
As we waited to be waved through, two shots were fired. Up ahead, we could see gunfire smoke near a car waiting to pass from Crimea into Ukraine. 
The pro-Russian forces manning the checkpoint immediately assumed defensive positions and stood back to back, weapons at the ready. 
But they remained calm, relaxed even. These masked men may not be wearing insignia but their discipline indicated that they had military training. 
As we passed the white sedan that had been shot at, we could see that no one in the vehicle was hurt, but the front tire had been shot out.
But on the eve of our departure, Simferopol airport was closed to all flights except those to and from Moscow.
A road trip would mean at least 10 hours of driving with no guarantee we would get through the checkpoints set up by pro-Russian forces between the Crimean peninsula and Ukrainian mainland.
We had witnessed one of these gunmen shoot out the tires of a vehicle trying to cross into Ukraine at a checkpoint in Chongar. We didn't want to risk a similar situation.
During our travels through the region, reaction to our cameras wasn't always positive. In Odessa we faced some aggression and were told that some pro-Russia activists did not look favorably on American-owned networks.
So with road travel struck off the list, we turned to the train timetables. So it seemed, had everyone else wanting to get out. 
The Kiev-bound service was booked out but we managed to snare the last tickets on a train to Donetsk, another region in eastern Ukraine which identifies more strongly with Moscow than Kiev.
So we boarded the Sevastopol-Donetsk express at 7.55 p.m. and immediately negotiated our way into first class to accommodate the 12 bags of camera equipment and personal luggage that we'd been dragging around the countryside from Kiev, to Odessa, to Simferopol and Sevastopol for the past seven days.
The train conductor kindly gave up her two-bunk cabin for us and no doubt spent a restless night in an upright chair.
That's not to suggest that we slept any more soundly. The heating was turned up to asteroid temperature and our kindly conductor woke us at 2 am to fetch her cigarettes that she'd left in the cabin.
Still, it was a markedly better and safer way to travel than by car. The carriages were full of young families and senior citizens heading to the Ukraine ahead of Sunday's referendum, there was a plentiful supply of tea with lemon and sugar, and at $15 for a standard ticket and $40 for first class, it was a bargain.
It was also hassle-free. Despite reports of pro-Russian forces inspecting trains in Crimea, our only visitor was a young mute man who wanted to sell us night lights.
We are now all proud owners of these small glowing souvenirs of a journey that may have left us parched from the heat, but which gave us one of the few remaining routes out of Crimea. At least until after the referendum on Sunday.
Ignorance really isn't bliss. But there are times when the lack of knowledge and expertise about a subject or place can actually serve to clear the mind and lead to some clarity and honesty in the debate on even the most complex matters. 
I'm certainly no expert on Ukraine. I'm not sure before this crisis that I could even name all of the countries that share its borders. But watching the ticktock of the debate on the issue this past week, I'm stunned by the lack of perspective and breathlessness in the discussion. 
Sadly, I've grown accustomed to the partisanship. It has become a permanent fixture of our analytical and policy landscape. But here are several things about the recent coverage and discussion on Ukraine that even my lack of expertise won't allow me to accept:
Clearly, none of the resets have worked with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Whether it was President George W. Bush looking into his eyes and seeing his soul or Bob Gates finding a stone-cold killer there, Putin isn't Stalin, Khrushchev or Brezhnev. That's hardly a shocker. Nor are we still in that unique period when two superpowers with contrasting ideological systems under the threat of nuclear war clashed and fought by proxy from one end of the globe to the other. 
There's no doubt that the United States and Russia have major differences. But the issue is no longer ideological. Russian capitalism is here to stay, state-controlled and monitored though it may be. And what ideology exists has more to do with asserting Russian national interests than anything Marx or Lenin would have recognized. And in at least one respect, that's too bad. At least during much of the Cold War, from the 1970s on, there were rules, do's and don'ts that prevented situations like Ukraine. 
We'll continue to struggle with Putin, to be sure. But the world's too small, the Europeans too dependent on Russia, and the realities of global interdependence too deep to imagine hitting the rewind button and turning the planet into an arena of conflict and competition. Would it make for a good video game? Yes.  
In the past week, I've heard people I admire and respect talk about Crimea as Munich and Putin as Hitler. Twain wrote that history doesn't repeat; it rhymes. But those rhythmic patterns aren't evident here, either. 
When we can't think of intelligent parallels in analyzing nations who do things America cannot abide, it seems we're drawn irresistibly to the Hitler trope. The same thing happens with Iran. And while I don't for a moment condone the vicious  Israel-baiting and hating of the mullahcracy in Tehran (and the anti-Semitism, too) to bring up Hitler not only trivializes the monstrosity of the evil and the magnitude of the crimes in his time, it imposes unrealistic challenges in ours.  
The unique challenge of Hitler demanded that he be stopped and the Nazi regime destroyed.  
We don't have to like the Putin government in Russia, or Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei's in Iran, to recognize that the magnitude of the threat is different. To compare them to Hitler is to urge the United States into a game that we don't want to play and can't win.
As best I can figure, Putin is a clever and easily riled Russian nationalist who presides over what remains of an empire whose time has come and gone. He lives in reality, not in some megalomaniacal world. But he is prepared to assert Russia's interests in spheres where it matters, and to block the West's intrusion into those areas as best he can. Russia is his "ideology." And on Ukraine, history and proximity give him cards to play. 
This man isn't a fanatic. Money, pleasure and power are too important to him. Any leader who is willing to be photographed shirtless on a horse, like some cover of Men's Health magazine, isn't going to shoot himself in the head or take cyanide in a bunker. This guy is way too hip (Russian style) and attached to the good life to be Hitler. And given Russia's own suffering at the hands of the Nazis, saying he is just makes matters worse.
President Barack Obama was never the catastrophic incompetent or Satan's finger on earth that his worst critics imagined nor the redeemer, savior, or great President that his most avid acolytes wanted. And yet the notion that Obama, through weak and feckless foreign policy, was responsible for Putin's move into Ukraine strains credulity to the breaking point.
This urban legend that because of Benghazi and the "red line" affair in Syria, Putin was compelled to do something in Ukraine that he wouldn't have done had Obama acted differently, is absurd. The administration's foreign policy has often resembled a blend between a Marx Brothers movie and the Three Stooges. But on this one the charge is absurd, as is the notion that somehow Obama could have stopped him. 
When the Soviet Union invaded Hungary in 1956, there was no U.S. military response; ditto in 1968 when the Soviets put down Prague Spring in Czechoslovakia. Sometimes, geography really is destiny. Russia believed its vital interests in Ukraine were threatened and it had the means, will, and proximity to act on them. And it's about time we faced up to it.
This notion that Obama's opponents have latched onto is, of course, unknowable. There are no rewind buttons in history. Counterfactuals are prime talking and debating points because they cannot be proven one way or the other. But to  argue that launching cruise missiles at Syrian military targets somehow would have deterred Putin from acting on what he perceived to be a Russian vital interest, or emboldened the Europeans to stand tougher against him, really is off base. 
Syria and Ukraine are like apples and oranges the President's detractors insist on putting in the same basket.  Even if Obama thought the U.S. had vital interests that justified an attack on Syria, it is likely it would not have altered Putin's policy toward Ukraine. The country perceived to be in Russia's zone of influence and manipulation was drifting westward. And Putin was determined to stop it.
Are there good guys and bad guys in the Ukraine-Russian drama? Sure there are. We have courageous Ukrainian patriots who died in the Maidan for the dignity and freedom they believed in; corrupt and ruthless government officials who were willing to use force against their own citizens; Russian provocateurs eager to stir up trouble; extremist Ukrainian nationalists who are hardly democrats; and a Russian strongman who hosted the Olympics one week and invaded the territory of a sovereign country the next.
I suspect that the Ukrainian Spring -- if that's what it is  -- may turn out better than its Arab counterpart. But we have to be real. Ukraine may be fractious and troubled for some time to come.  
Below the morality play there is intense factionalism; regional differences; scores to settle; Russian manipulation; and a tendency to avoid the kind of compromise that would lead to real power sharing and good governance. 
We like Hollywood endings. But real democratization depends less on a friendly U.S. or EU hand than on the emergence of genuine leaders who are prepared to rise above factional affinities and see a vision for the country as  a whole. It also depends on institutions that reflect popular will and some mechanism for accommodating differences peacefully without resorting to violence. 
There are no easy or happy endings here. And we can only make matters worse, as Henry Kissinger suggested recently, by trying to turn the Ukraine crisis into a Russia vs. the West  (or worse, the U.S.) tug-of-war. 
While much of the world is focused on the Russian incursion into the Crimean Peninsula of Ukraine, another long-term move may allow the former Soviet navy to dominate U.S. interests to the north: the Arctic.
The rapid melting of the Arctic Ocean is quickly creating a new variety of challenges that have the potential to cause significant global damage if they remain unaddressed. 
The Obama administration's policy correctly recognizes that the United States has profoundly important economic and cultural interests in the Arctic but regrettably reveals very little about what the federal government will be doing outside of the science field.
While recent U.S. policies either dance around the core issues, or worse, do not acknowledge that they exist, the Russians are taking the lead on Arctic policy. After all, the Arctic is in their backyard, too.  
Moreover, Russia -- as if to highlight the value they place on their navy and renaissance as a maritime nation -- took control of the strategic Crimean Peninsula, assuring and securing warm water Russian Navy access to the global commons.  
In light of these recent events, it would be wise for Washington to seriously consider the economic potential and security vulnerabilities that exist on or near the U.S. Arctic coastline.  
Overwhelmingly, the U.S. Arctic policy debate echoes past concerns of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Consequently, many in the policy community are pushing a heavy science and no-development agenda to preserve the pristine character of the region. 
The recently issued Department of Defense Arctic Strategy is a case in point: It talks extensively about the DOD scientific mission and uses the terms "sustainable development" and preservation of the unspoiled area as important national goals. 
But just saying "no" ignores the fact that the precious Arctic mineral and oil and gas resources will help assure the United States is able, over time, to achieve and then maintain its energy independence.  
Science is incredibly important, as is safe and responsible development of the Arctic, but our agencies and scientists need to approach these issues with a greater sense of urgency.  Arguably, the science needs to be a component of a detailed national action, but that's only a fraction of good U.S. policy. 
One: Demonstrate leadership in the Arctic and develop a strategy and policy to match. The U.S. has no leadership in the high north and Russia does, which is a great concern for our allies.  
Two: Invest in infrastructure, Navy and Coast Guard to support U.S. security and commercial interests in the Arctic. The key here is to develop the policy that drives those requirements so we are not "late to need." 
Three: Demonstrate leadership in the maritime domain worldwide -- and not retreat as we are doing by default in the Arctic.  
Four: Facilitate and further develop offshore natural resources in the high north/Alaska and the national, international, maritime and geopolitical governance structures that will underpin those enterprises.
Washington, in less than two years, will assume a leadership role when it becomes Chair for the Arctic Council. Unfortunately, the DOD policy and U.S. Navy Arctic Roadmap 2014 do not articulate what the U.S. Arctic leadership agenda will entail. 
The reality is ignoring the issues and choosing not to participate in the Arctic will not make the issues go away. 
Yes, budgets are challenging, but the Arctic is no different from any other international frontier or global common where the U.S. has interests. We need to protect it and demonstrate leadership in the maritime domain -- not retreat. 
So, too, our policy makers need to be looking beyond our shores to Moscow, Ottawa, Oslo, Copenhagen, the Arctic Council, international oil companies and Lloyds of London for help in solving this governance challenge. 
The last thing that any of the Arctic states can afford is to back into a Russian-generated crisis with no resources or a plan. 
The time is now for more U.S. leadership to ensure the Arctic becomes a safe, secure and prosperous region in which to live and work.  
Europe's Eastern policy, if there ever really was one, is in tatters. It has unraveled at breakneck speed, as Russia moved against Ukraine, effectively annexed part of its territory, and put its smaller neighbor on the brink of war. 
Moving from disbelief to dismay to horror, Europeans lost whatever hopes and illusions they may have harbored that Russia was a predictable and cooperative partner. Instead, images are being invoked of the Soviet intervention in Czechoslovakia in 1968 and in Hungary in 1956, and a new Cold War seems fully possible now. 
However far-fetched they may seem, these comparisons reflect a frantic search among Western politicians and experts for the underlying causes, rationales and consequences of Russia's actions in Ukraine. And it slowly dawns on Europe that it is witness to a sea change in Russian foreign policy that shakes the very foundations of the European order that emerged after the fall of the Iron Curtain.
Russia's actions in Ukraine, while still in full swing, signal nothing less than the maturing of a new and interventionist strategy. Resembling the original Brezhnev doctrine, the Kremlin seems fully resolved now to interfere with any of its post-Soviet neighbors, should they chose a political model at home or affiliations abroad that differ from what Moscow proposes: autocracy from within, and Eurasian integration from without. 
Renegades in turn, such as Ukraine after the ouster of Viktor Yanukovych, that venture towards democracy and EU integration, will face Russian retaliation designed to threaten their very existence.
This strategy has been in the making for a decade. Once President Putin had established his full authoritarian rule, tamed the oligarchs and controlled the economy, and basked in oil and gas revenues, the Kremlin started to move on its neighbors. 
Most of these had long remained in a twilight -- some shaky democracies, others semi-dictatorships, all oscillating between East and West -- until Russia attended to them. It propped up odious dictators from Belarus to Kazakhstan with financial and political backing. 
It punished defectors from Moldova to Ukraine with gas cut-offs, trade embargoes, and propaganda wars. It "passportized" citizens of Georgia and found their rights violated, only to send its military to the rescue. In short, Russia has long tested and refined an arsenal of coercion that can be applied to any of its smaller neighbors politically and economically, socially and culturally, legally and if need be, militarily.
Yet the Kremlin discovered that, besides direct measures against its neighbors, action was needed on additional stages. For years now, Russia has hollowed out international organizations, such as the OSCE or the Council of Europe, by blocking their budgets, manipulating parliamentary assemblies, and dispatching rival monitors. 
Foreign donors, from development aid agencies to private foundations, were squeezed out from Russia, Belarus and elsewhere to weaken civil society and independent media. Russian business massively expanded its reach into the EU, wooed individual countries with lucrative deals from pipelines in Germany to nuclear energy in Hungary to French military supplies, and infiltrated EU capitals with a myriad of lobbyists.
It should hardly surprising, then, that European responses to Russia's increasingly aggressive behavior have been muffled at best.
What may long have been a cocktail of stand-alone and ad-hoc actions to increase Russian influence over its neighbors, and to curtail that of Europe, has now become a fully-fledged doctrine with Vladimir Putin's return to the presidency in 2012. Since then, the Kremlin has both formalized its ambitions and backed them up ideologically. 
On a formal level, it launched the Eurasian Union, an integration project to return former Soviet republics to Russian hegemony and to prevent them from moving closer to the EU. On an ideological level, Moscow dressed its policy as a civilizational struggle of its own superior model of a strong state and controlled society with the weak and degenerate liberal democracies of Europe. In so doing, Russia has formulated the political goal and justification needed for employing its many pressure tools systematically and strategically.
In this light, the current Russian intervention in Ukraine is neither the impulsive overreaction of the Kremlin to the loss of an ally, nor result of Vladimir Putin's deficient touch with reality. 
On the contrary, it is the full application of a strategy that has long been in the making. The only novelty is that, with the planned incorporation of Crimea into the Russian Federation, this doctrine is now taken to the ultimate end: the redrawing of borders in the post-Soviet space. In so doing, Russia threatens all of its neighbors and challenges the European order as such.
Nothing so far suggests that Russia will limit itself in these aspirations. After years of pressuring neighbors without much resistance, the Kremlin feels emboldened in its strategy and has little reason for self-restraint. Moscow's aggressive quest for its "near abroad" has become an ideological mission to fight the West, one that has left all rational grounds and that ignores all costs and consequences, including those to Russia itself. 
Opposition to this policy within Russia is effectively non-existent, as decisions are taken by a small circle of hardliners, parliament serves to rubber-stamp them, and civil society and independent media have been silenced. Ordinary Russians, in turn, overwhelmingly support Putin's actions and assertiveness, at over two-thirds according to recent polls.
In this situation, brakes on Russian interventionism can only be imposed from outside. Ukrainians have given a powerful example of resistance, through the courage of hundreds of thousands of protesters and the remarkable moderation of their new government in the face of Russian provocations. 
Yet Ukraine, and no less other neighbors such as Georgia and Moldova that have equally chosen a path of democracy and European integration, will not be able to resist mounting Russian aggressiveness. Only Europe, in concert with the United States, can put a check on the Putin doctrine before it drags the Eastern half of the continent into the abyss.
Europe's first immediate response, as is becoming clear even to its most reluctant leaders, must be a range of sanctions against Russia. The EU has rightly tried for negotiations first but has to acknowledge now that the Kremlin flatly refuses any talks and compromise. 
Europe must now roll out travel bans and asset freezes against those in the Russian leadership who are directly responsible for this escalation, followed by a swift extension to include the 300 or so influentials, and their families, who control much of the country's politics and business today. 
In a next step, and depending on Russia's response, Europe should impose a range of economic sanctions, halt arms and technology exports to Russia, stop sales of Russian-held real estate in the EU, pause preparations of strategic infrastructure projects such as Russian pipelines to Europe, and subject key Russian business operations to the full scrutiny and regulatory power of the EU.
In parallel, Europe must sign the association and free trade agreements with Ukraine, Moldova, and Georgia within weeks. A snap summit of EU leaders could be held in Kiev that, ideally, would finally state the long-overdue EU membership perspective for Eastern neighbors, and substantiate this prospect with a comprehensive assistance package to see would-be members through the political, economic and social reforms necessary for European integration. Politically and materially, this would send a strong signal of commitment to Europe's East, and one that Russia will find hard to match.
EU measures will have to be taken to enhance the economic, energy, cyber and hard security of those Eastern European countries -- new EU members as well as neighbors -- that are particularly exposed to Russian pressures. Europe's Eastern policy will have to be reformulated, based on the acknowledgment that the EU is now in direct competition with Russia. 
Its neighborhood policy will have to be redefined as an enlargement policy, while its Russia strategy can no longer be based on the illusion of partnership. Economic ties with Russia, whether its oil and gas imports or business activities in the EU, will have to be reconsidered. And Europe's multinational institutions, whether OSCE, Council of Europe or NATO, must be strengthened and empowered to once again serve as guarantors of collective development and security -- open but not hostage to Russia.
This is an enormous agenda, comparable only to the challenge of reuniting Europe after the end of the Cold War. 
Much as it successfully answered that call, the EU must now muster the political will, foresight and vision to save its Eastern neighborhood from falling victim to the Putin doctrine.
As things have been going for Ukraine lately, Wednesday could easily go down as the best day yet for the new government of Arseniy Yatsenyuk. 
Topped by a high-profile Oval Office visit, it was a welcome distraction from a string of humiliations and provocations from Russia -- not least of which was the creeping occupation of the Crimea.
If Yatsenyuk left Washington dissatisfied, he clearly wasn't showing it. The visit brought promises of $1 billion of desperately needed loan guarantees, an immediate surge in U.S. bilateral assistance that ranges from a doubling of support for the May 25 presidential elections to increased academic scholarships and even Meals Ready to Eat (MREs) for the Ukrainian military.
Read more: Senate committee approves Ukraine aid package, Russia sanctions 
Washington's overtures came as the G7 group of nations and the European Union rallied to throw additional support to a beleaguered Ukraine. Aside from strong talk of more sanctions for Russia -- should a referendum branded illegal by the West and Ukraine go ahead this weekend -- there were gifts of $685-million in trade benefits from Brussels and hints of an accelerated signing of an EU Association Agreement after presidential elections.
Yet, despite all that, Yatsenyuk, one of the most polished and articulate Ukrainian politicians of this generation, hinted that his new government is going to have to deal with autonomy demands -- both present and future - from pro-Russian regions.
"We need to start a nationwide dialogue on the autonomy of Crimea," Yatsenyuk said at an Atlantic Council speech in Washington, D.C..
But he added that there are no legal grounds for Sunday's referendum -- a referendum that he and the West see as a rogue act backed by pro-Russian thugs and a show of brute and unprovoked military force.
"This is an illegitimate, unconstitutional referendum," Yatsenyuk said, echoing the talking points heard from the corridors of power in London, Brussels and Berlin.
To his credit, Yatsenyuk and Ukrainian President Oleksandr Turchynov have, so far, come across as a national unity government of peace and reconciliation. As Yatsenyuk correctly noted, Kiev has resisted Russian provocations and has made real conciliatory gestures to the Russian majority in the east and south - for example not backing legislation limiting the use of the Russian language at the administrative-regional level.
To say that the stakes are high is almost an understatement. With Russian military might also amassing on Ukraine's eastern borders there was talk of the region even descending into a quagmire equal to that of "another Afghanistan."
While the arrival of an unprecedented tide of Western support and rhetorical embrace has been received with glee in Ukraine, it is undeniable that the history of Western promises has been less than stellar. As one Diaspora member pointed out Wednesday, not one international pledging conference for Chernobyl has ever met its goal. 
Curious too that the West is acting only now, with Ukraine on the precipice and when Western experts have been warning for years that Putin has long since been developing separatist scenarios.
And if the sentiments of ordinary Ukrainians in the Maidan Square are anything to go by, Western assistance has come too late.
"Any moment Putin could land a helicopter in here and destroy us," said a pensioner from Dnipropetrovsk who was tending his tent Friday morning on the fringes of Maidan.
Said another Maidan protester from western Ukraine: "What was promised doesn't make any difference to me. They've promised in the past and then what?"
The precedent being set by the holding of a Crimea referendum is surely the main reason for the panic from the White House to Westminster.
In his Atlantic Council discussion, Yatsenyuk was asked how confident he was of receiving the Western support being promised to him.
Yatsenyuk said the issue was one of global security. He cited the 1994 Budapest Memorandum -- inked by the U.S., UK, Ukraine and Russia -- which guaranteed Ukraine's territorial integrity in return for the dismantling of its massive Soviet-era nuclear arsenal.
"We executed this memorandum," he said. "And today we ask for the protection. If we don't get this protection, tell me the way how the world is to reinforce or ask another countries to stop their nuclear programs."
Of course there are other international legal provisions which should prevent Russia from grabbing Ukrainian territory; these include the provisions of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) treaty and the U.N. Charter. But, as with the Budapest Memorandum, there aren't any clear enforcement mechanisms.
International legal experts say they are hardly surprised by the Kremlin's brazen land grab, pointing to what seems a long-term policy of strategic separatism in the Black Sea region.
Lada Roslycky, a past fellow of the Harvard Black Sea Security Program, said that aside from violating national and international laws, the Crimea referendum is being held under the duress of Russian military occupation.
"The referendum, if recognized, will deface non-proliferation and support illegal Russian Federation operations elsewhere," says Roslycky.
Putin says Russia's actions fall within the scope of the 1997 Friendship Treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. But with Russia apparently in operational control of the Crimea it's absurd to claim Ukraine's territorial integrity has been respected.
At the end of the day, it will be the actions of greater powers that will determine whether Putin blinks over his Crimea strategy. With talk of suspending Russia's membership of the G8 and even of barring its participation in the World Cup, the Kremlin could decide to back down.
But with Putin being quoted as saying such nonsense as Ukraine did not leave the former Soviet Union in a legal way, it is anyone's guess what might happen next.
On a dusty, pot-holed road south from the Crimean capital, Simferopol, there is a battered sign in Cyrillic. "Yalta," it says, pointing the way to the town on the Black Sea where UK Prime Minister Winston Churchill, USSR Premier Joseph Stalin and U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt met secretly in February 1945. It was at this Crimean resort that the "Big Three" debated the future of Europe
Most historians conclude that Stalin was the "winner" at Yalta. There was little discussion of Eastern Europe, which was soon to fall within the Soviet orbit. Churchill and Roosevelt won no meaningful concessions on Poland, already occupied by Soviet troops.
The ailing U.S. President's main aim was to win agreement on setting up the United Nations, where the United States and Soviet Union would spend the next 40 years vetoing each other's resolutions in the Security Council. 
Yalta was the preamble to the Cold War. Facts on the ground -- the sweep westward of the Red Army -- strengthened Stalin's hand. In the House of Commons after returning from the conference, Churchill asked of the Poles: "Are their sovereignty and independence to be untrammeled, or are they to become a mere projection of the Soviet state?" 
The answer -- a sham election in 1947 that sealed Communist rule -- was not long in coming. 
The Iron Curtain, a term coined by Churchill, may have long fallen, holding out the promise to what former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev called "our common European home."
But arguments over sovereignty, self-determination and spheres of influence are suddenly electric again. And they are playing out in the Crimean Peninsula.
The Russian flag already flies across Crimea. Pro-Ukrainian rallies attract a couple of hundred people. Most Ukrainians here seem resigned to the new order, although a steady stream have taken the train north to stay in Kiev, for the time being at least. Cossacks now guard government buildings, and the new self-installed government talks of plans for adopting the ruble and Moscow's time-zone.
Billboards proclaiming "Together With Russia" are everywhere. Flights from Ukraine into Simferopol, currently suspended, will be directed to the international terminal if they ever resume. And a border, with barbed wire and checkpoints, is already taking shape across the neck of land that joins Crimea to the rest of Ukraine.
The other evening, an elderly man shuffled in the shadow of the statue of Lenin that still dominates Simferopol's largest square. He carried a flag, the hammer and sickle of the Soviet era, and a photograph, of Stalin. To older Russians here who remember the collaboration of some Ukrainians with the Nazis, the nationalist politicians now in government in Kiev are "fascists."
They claim the "Right Sector" in Ukraine is planning to sabotage Sunday's referendum in Crimea with acts of provocation. Referendum billboards in Sevastopol -- the home of Russia's Black Sea fleet -- display maps of Russia and Ukraine, the latter stamped with a swastika. 
Many Ukrainians -- including interim Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyk -- think Russian President Vladimir Putin wants to expand Russia to the old borders of the Soviet Union. They say that if Moscow is allowed to annex Crimea, it will look hungrily to eastern Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. They lament what they saw as the West's indifference when Russian tanks came within 50 miles of the Georgian capital Tbilisi in 2008.
And they fear Putin will continue to do all in his power to stop Ukraine from knocking at the door of that "common European home" by seeking to join the European Union. 
Even in the Baltic states, politicians liken events today in Crimea to Stalin's gobbling up of their countries in 1940. Germany has gone as far as to reassure the Baltic republics -- which have sizeable Russian speaking minorities -- that as members of NATO they will be secure. 
But the alarm at unfolding events is palpable -- in Berlin, Paris and other western capitals. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Russia was taking advantage of Ukraine's weakness. That is how wars began in the 19th and 20th centuries, she said, "which we thought we had overcome."
Putin -- buoyed by rocketing approval ratings at home -- seems unmoved by U.S. threats of what Merkel called "massive political and economic consequences" for Russia should it absorb Crimea. What those consequences will be remains unclear, but they seem likely to begin with visa restrictions and the freezing of foreign assets held by the new pro-Russian leadership and its supporters in Crimea. 
The justification would be that they have illegally and unconstitutionally taken over part of a sovereign country. Should Russia go ahead and annex Crimea, sanctions would likely be extended to prominent Russians.
But the Russian military exercises close to Ukraine's eastern border over the past few days may be designed to warn that consequences will in turn have consequences. 
On Friday, the Russian Foreign Ministry issued a stark warning about unrest in eastern Ukraine, where Russian speakers make up about half the population.
After Ukrainian and pro-Russian protesters clashed in Donetsk on Thursday, reportedly leaving two dead, Moscow said it had repeatedly warned the new government in Kiev that it must "disarm the militants, provide security for the population and legal rights for people during demonstrations."
The Foreign Ministry statement went on: "Russia acknowledges its responsibility for the lives of its compatriots and fellow citizens in Ukraine and reserves the right to take these people under its protection."
Seventy-five years ago, on March 15, 1939, Adolf Hitler ordered the Wehrmacht into the Sudetenland, a German-speaking part of Czechoslovakia. His justification was simple: "I am simply demanding that the oppression of three and a half million Germans in Czechoslovakia cease and that the inalienable right to self-determination take its place."
'At a crossroads': Russia military muscle, Sunday vote heighten crisis in Crimea
There has been lots of talk by officials about Ukraine, specifically about the disputed region of Crimea and it possibly joining Russia.
There have been threats of sanctions and other punitive measures against Moscow, for allegedly supporting this breakaway from Ukraine, in spirit and in action. Troops -- some uniformed, some not -- have been seen in and around the region, raising worries, even if no one has been shot.
For as tense as things are now, the fear is that things could deteriorate quickly and bloodily. The trigger may be Sunday's vote in Crimea, where voters can formally set the stage for its secession from Ukraine and becoming part of Russia.
Russia's increased flexing of its military might has heightened the tensions and raised fears of an imminent invasion, especially after the referendum results come in and the dominoes start falling. 
Thousands of Russian paratroopers, artillerymen and more on Friday continued a large-scale military drill near the Ukraine border. On the same day, armored truck after truck toting long-range guns and other military equipment rumbled through northern Crimea.
Already, eight Ukrainian military units in Crimea have been taken over, 22 others are blocked, and 49 of 56 border patrol stations are in similar straits, Ukraine's foreign ministry said.
Kiev's new Western-leaning government -- which came to power following the ouster of President Viktor Yanukovych, who fled last month after succumbing to intense public pressure in part for aligning more with Moscow and less with the European Union -- has insisted that Ukraine's territorial integrity, including Crimea, must be respected.
Moscow has been equally steadfast in its support for ethnic Russians and abiding by voter's' wishes in Crimea.
Estonia's defense minister, Urmas Reinsalu, warned Friday that Ukraine is on the verge of a full-scale military conflict unless Russian President Vladimir Putin's hand is forced. 
"It is clear that we are at a crossroads," U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said Friday. "If positions continue to harden and rhetoric continues to sharpen, there is great risk of a dangerous downward spiral."
Russia so far has refused any direct talks with Ukraine's new leaders, but its foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, has talked daily with Kerry, met face-to-face with him last week in Europe and the diplomats met again for more than five hours Friday in London.
Afterward, it appeared -- as has been the case for weeks -- the only thing Russia and the United States agree upon is that they can't agree on anything of substance.
While the Russian foreign minister and his team did engage in talks Friday, calling them negotiations may be a reach. As Kerry said, Moscow wasn't going to do anything until the Crimea referendum's results are released, likely Monday.
In fact, Lavrov didn't have any authority to even negotiate on anything to do with Crimea, according to a senior State Department official.
His boss, Putin, reiterated Friday that Sunday's vote is in line with international law and the U.N. charter, a Kremlin statement said. A day earlier, Russian U.N. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin asked why Crimeans don't deserve a right to self-determination, just like anyone else.
While Churkin accused the West of having "fanned the flames of unrest," officials there accuse Russia of instigating and furthering the crisis -- including sending troops into Crimea to blockade and seize Ukrainian military and other facilities, something Moscow has denied.
European nations and the United States have already hit back some, with targeted punishments in addition to offers of billions in aid to Ukraine's fledgling government. The situation seems to have had an impact already within Russia, as evidenced by steep declines in its stock market and the value of the ruble. And the State Department cautioned Americans about traveling to Russia given "the possibility of violence or anti-U.S. actions directed against U.S. citizens or U.S. interests."
Kerry warned Friday that the "consequences" will be far more stringent should Putin sign off on the "back-door annexation" of Crimea.
At the same time, he opened the door for less strident measures should Russia opt not to take in Crimea -- whatever the referendum says -- and instead go along with more autonomy, human rights monitoring and other steps for that region if it stays part of Ukraine.
"If there is greater diplomatic opportunity that can be pursued -- and that is, in fact, on the table -- then I'm confident that whatever the response is would be calibrated accordingly," Kerry said. "But if ... a decision is made that is negative and/or flies in the face of all of the rationale that the EU and others have put on the table for the illegality (of an annexation), that will obviously demand some further response."
For his part, Lavrov called Friday's conversations -- which he characterized as "negotiations" -- as "useful," even if they didn't produce a breakthrough. He added he's aware of what might happen if Crimea becomes part of Russia, saying sanctions won't help anyone.
"I assure you that our partners understand that sanctions are counterproductive ... and (they) will not facilitate mutual interests," he said.
Some 1,500 miles away from these seemingly calm, cordial discussions, Crimea continues to boil.
Col. Evgeniy Pivovarov, the head of a military hospital associated with Ukraine's foreign ministry, was "kidnapped" Friday evening in the Crimean capital of Simferopol, a Ukrainian defense ministry spokesman for Crimea said.
"His kidnappers cuffed Pivovarov's hands behind his back and drove him away," said Vladislav Seleznev. "His whereabouts are currently unknown."
Meanwhile, in northern Crimea, video shot by CNN showed green trucks rolling in the direction of Dzhankoy, home to a key military airfield. They appeared loaded, including some with long-range artillery guns.
Who was driving them, and for what purpose? One of the vehicles had a Russian license plate, but the other had no plates at all. And men connected to the convoy refused to answer CNN's questions on the matter.
Ukrainian officials have repeatedly claimed that Russian troops are among the armed men that have, effectively, taken over Crimea on the heels of the local government's decision to side with Moscow and against Kiev.   
Russia has denied any direct involvement, saying what's happening in Crimea is an internal matter. The powerful nation hasn't been shy, however, about military activities on its side of the border with Ukraine.
Its defense ministry has said about 8,500 artillery personnel were staging snap military exercises not far from Ukraine's eastern border. U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Samantha Power estimated "at least 10,000" Russian troops overall were involved. 
"This is the second time inside of a month that Russia has chosen to mass large amounts of force on short notice without much transparency around the eastern borders of Ukraine," a senior State Department official said.
Meanwhile, six Russian jet fighters were moved to Bobruisk airfield in Belarus on Thursday, Russian state news agency RIA Novosti cited the Belarussian Defense Ministry as saying Friday.
The move is part of Belarus' offer to Russia to participate in joint military drills, the news agency reported. Belarus, a former Soviet republic, borders Russia and northern Ukraine.
Russia's defense ministry released video Friday showing paratroopers floating downward as part of those drills. 
Should Moscow launch a full-fledged invasion of at least Crimea, they should prevail, said Ruslan Pukhov, the director of CAST, or the Centre for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies, in Moscow.
Russia has more than four times the amount of troops as Ukraine, not to mention exponentially more tanks, armored personnel carriers and ships.
"There is no fortification. There is no military infrastructure," Pukhov said. "That is why I think it would be quite easy and quick."
To President Barack Obama and U.S. allies in Europe, Sunday's secession referendum in Crimea is unconstitutional, illegal and a fraud because Russian troops have essentially taken over the southern Ukraine peninsula.
To Russian President Vladimir Putin, it is a chance for Crimean residents to decide if they want to realign their region with Moscow after the political strife in Ukraine that ousted the pro-Russian leader last month.
Whatever the outcome, the vote planned by Crimea's regional parliament and endorsed by Russia's government will further inflame the Ukrainian crisis as the United States and European Union seek a diplomatic solution while threatening diplomatic and political sanctions.
Here are some of the biggest questions about the issue, with a look at how key players are weighing in:
Voters in the autonomous Ukrainian region of about 2 million people will choose between asserting independence from the former Soviet republic or joining neighboring Russia. There is no option for the status quo -- remaining a part of Ukraine.
Voters must be older than 18 and bring ID documents to show they are a resident of Crimea in order to cast a ballot. Officials say voters can expect to see members of the local electoral commission and observers at their allocated polling station, which will be open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. local time.
Results are expected Monday and U.S. officials have made clear they expect Crimean voters to choose to become part of Russia.
The referendum follows the lightning chain of events in Ukraine in recent months that included increasingly violent protests against the government, the country's pro-Russian President fleeing across the border, and then Russian troops seizing what amounts to military control of Crimea -- where Russia's Black Sea fleet is based.
By unanimously backing the referendum, the Crimean parliament signaled the intentions of regional leaders as well as Russia to restore the territory to Moscow's control.
Ukraine's interim government insists Crimea is part of the country, a stance supported by the United States and its European allies.
In Ukraine, the interim government rejects the referendum as unconstitutional, while many in the pro-Russian Crimea region desire the chance to again align with Moscow.
Russia says the political upheaval in Ukraine that forced out President Viktor Yanukovych ended the Kiev government's constitutional authority.
Russian President Vladimir Putin calls the ousting of Yanukovych an anti-constitutional coup, and he argues the people of Crimea should have the right to decide their future in the same way as other autonomous regions, such as Kosovo's breakaway from Serbia.
However, Obama and European leaders insist the Crimean referendum would violate the Ukrainian constitution and international law.
Samantha Power, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, told CNN last week that the Ukrainian constitution requires territorial referendums to be held "across the entirety of Ukraine and not just in a sub-region like this."
She argued that Yanukovych fled of his own volition, and that constitutional authority agreed to in a February 21 deal he reached with opposition leaders and European envoys remained in effect.
Under that agreement, Ukraine will elect a new government on May 25 for the entire country, including Crimea.
Obama's quick condemnation of a Crimean referendum showed the United States expects the outcome to favor realigning with Russia.
The autonomous region has a 60% ethnic Russian population, having been part of Russia until it was ceded to Ukraine in 1954 when both countries belonged to the Soviet Union.
Power said that if the referendum goes forward, the result would get little recognition beyond Russia.
That didn't matter in 2008 when Russia under Putin sent troops into neighboring Georgia, another former Soviet territory, to back autonomy for the pro-Russian regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. 
More than five years later, both territories are effectively annexed with Russian forces still present.
Asked if Crimea and perhaps other parts of eastern and southern Ukraine that favor Russia might end up the same, Power said: "I think it's maybe not helpful to talk about precedents."
"We are seeking to create a future where the past is not replicated here in Ukraine," she added.
For Russia, a major motivation is ensuring control of its Black Sea fleet based in Sevastopol, as well as its economic influence in Ukraine and other former Soviet territories and satellites. 
The Crimean referendum would provide an electoral justification for what amounts to a land grab amid Ukraine's political upheaval.
Obama acknowledged Russia had legitimate concerns that needed to be part of a solution, such as guarantees it could maintain the Sevastopol-based naval fleet in Ukraine.
However, his call for Russian troops in Crimea to return to their barracks and negotiations between Russia and Ukraine on a solution has so far yielded little progress.
Both the United States and European Union have threatened sanctions if no significant progress occurs soon, but major economic ties between Russia and European powers, such as Germany, raise questions about the strength of any EU steps.
Secretary of State John Kerry said Thursday that if the Crimean referendum proceeds with no sign of movement by Russia on negotiating with Ukraine on the crisis, "there will be a very serious series of steps Monday in Europe and here."
To CNN's Fareed Zakaria, Putin may get his wish with Crimea, but at a cost.
"They got Crimea, but they've scared off Ukraine," he said. "And, most importantly, the people of Ukraine are now deeply suspicious of Russia. The people in Poland and Hungary and the Czech Republic, or probably in places like Kazakhstan, are all now fearful."
As I wait in line, staring down at the notes in my iPhone to remember the exact order for two Quarter Pounder with Cheese meals for our engineer and cameraman, I could well be in any McDonald's in the world.
The golden arches, the familiar red signs with Ronald McDonald staring straight at me and the menu remain the same wherever you go in the world, such is the long arm of American corporate globalization. This restaurant is certainly a testament to that. 
With a couple of Mercedes sports cars parked on the curb, facing the town's Apple store, this particular McDonald's is doing a roaring trade this Friday lunchtime. 
It's only two days before the region's people will go to the ballot boxes and vote on whether to stay part of the Ukraine or join Russia. The referendum will be held on Sunday.
From what we have seen here, this will be largely symbolic. From what we can see, the majority of Crimeans would rather look toward Moscow than Kiev and the white, blue and red of the Russian flag is already flying through these streets. 
Our team was asked to come down here to the port of Sevastopol after having spent a week in the heart of the Crimean capital, Simferopol, dodging cossacks with their whips, men with more than a whiff of vodka on their breath and Russian soldiers sporting trendy balaclavas and AK47s. 
Nestled on the Black Sea, Sevastopol is a party town, prettier than the capital.
Luxury yachts are in the port side by side with Russian destroyers. There are many nightclubs and bars. Indeed, the main square has had a concert on every night for the past seven days to celebrate returning back to the "motherland."
Contrary to what the European foreign ministers say on their official Twitter accounts and what the State Department may read out during their briefings in Washington, the majority of the people we have spoken with here are glad the Russian bear has woken up. And they are happy to roar with it.
I mean, in their eyes with the amount of propaganda from billboards with swastikas over the map of Ukraine and rumors of terrorists in Kiev, who wouldn't want to be Russian? In their eyes, it's either that or being a Nazi.
The main square here fills up each lunchtime with cossacks, Russian flags and the local pro-Russian militias with their red armbands dressed all in black. 
The music reminds me of old Soviet propaganda films and these men in their gangs of militias remind me of my history lessons learning about the so-called "brownshirts" of Adolf Hitler's SA during the 1930s. 
The irony not lost that these men who chant "Putin, Putin, Putin" and call those who protested in Maidan square fascists look very similar to those real fascists pictured in my old history books.
We have been in this town for over a week now, and I haven't seen one Ukrainian flag apart from the two on the Ukrainian warships blockaded in the port. It is far too dangerous for any pro-Ukranian voices to speak out. 
News of abductions and kidnapping are daily here, and as we enjoyed a meal last night, we were asked to give our details to the Ukrainian police officers who detained us there for just under an hour. They are carefully watched over by their new Russian boss. 
A plainclothed FSB (Russian secret police) officer making sure that the local police now start to monitor the movements of Western journalists properly. An apologetic "sorry" was uttered in English after they had finished taking our passport details.
No matter how the older generation here roar and chant the Russian President's name, there is a bubble under the surface. The majority of young people here have grown up as Ukrainian, never under the watchful eye of Moscow, and they aren't too pleased.
Every time you ask them what they think, you just get a sigh as they say "What can we do?" and talk of perhaps one day leaving to Kiev.
And so the result of the referendum on Sunday will go one way.  There may be two questions posed on the ballot paper, but there is already only one answer. That answer being written in Cyrillic. 
Yet Monday, before we leave Crimea and take our flights back to London, via Moscow as all other flights to and from other destinations have been canceled, I may well pop in and grab a bite for the road.
I am sure that I will still look around in that full restaurant and see the same Ukrainian faces, paying for their meals with Ukrainian currency with a Big Mac in one hand and a Russian flag in the other.
"Donetsk is a Russian city." The chant rang out in the eastern Ukrainian city on Saturday, as thousands of pro-Russia demonstrators rallied beneath a towering statue of Soviet revolutionary Vladimir Lenin in the city's main square.
They waved Russian flags and red flags emblazoned with the iconic image of Argentinian Marxist Che Guevara.
"They are frightened," said local journalist Denis Kazansky of pro-Ukraine protestors. "They will not come out and demonstrate."
That's because just three days earlier, Lenin Square was the scene of violent clashes that left a 22-year-old, pro-Ukrainian activist dead. 
A floral tribute is the only evidence that remains of the bloodshed that unfolded Thursday night when a police cordon that stood between rival groups was breached.
The tribute appeared a lonely site on Saturday as thousands of pro-Russia protesters stood with their backs to it. Their focus turned to a platform beneath the Lenin statue, where men and women took turns making their case for a referendum on the right to self-determination.
Among the demonstrators was Vladimir Kosolapov, a local leader for the Communist Party in Ukraine. He told us that people in this eastern pocket of Ukraine supported the idea of federalism.
"We need more independence from Kiev for our region. Most people here don't think that power in Kiev is legitimate."
In the region, 48% are ethnic Russians and 46% are ethnic Ukrainian. Most speak Russian as their first language and feel closer historic ties to Moscow than Kiev.
"I am a citizen of Ukraine," said Kosolapov. "I have the opportunity to leave Ukraine and go to Russia to my friends and relations but I don't want to go. I will not leave here because this is my home. My family is here. This is my parents' native land."
While those who support the new government in Kiev have only been holding sporadic rallies in Donetsk, pro-Russian demonstrators have a more permanent presence in Lenin Square. They have set up red tents from where they call for volunteers to join self-defense units and invite people to sign a petition and answer three questions. 
Do you support a Customs Union? Yes. This is a trade agreement between Russia and some of the former Soviet republics. 
The local council had tried to ban any further demonstrations this weekend following the bloodshed on Thursday, but the Donetsk District Court rejected the request, saying there was no evidence of any danger to the public. 
Indeed, the rally in Lenin Square was peaceful on Saturday, though the demonstrators did bring traffic to a standstill when they decided to march through the streets and take their protest to the offices of the SBU, the Ukraine Security Services, which is loyal to Kiev.
As riot police stood guard at the building entrance, the demonstrators called for the release of Pavel Gubarev, one of the leaders of the pro-Moscow protest movement who was arrested by the SBU on March 6, for leading a blockade at the regional administration building.
There were reports of some property damage, but the demonstration did not escalate further.
But it won't be an end to the pro-Russian fervor in Donetsk. Police were poised for more of the same with another major rally planned on Sunday in a show of support for the referendum in Crimea.
A spectacular closing ceremony brought an end to the 2014 Sochi Paralympic Games Sunday.
In front of Russian President Vladimir Putin, the ceremony embraced the theme of "Reaching the Impossible."
Some 547 athletes from 45 countries competed for the 72 gold medals on offer -- with host nation Russia coming out on top.
Russia claimed 30 gold medals and 80 in total, way ahead of Germany which finished in second place.
On the day where a referendum was held in Crimea, Ukraine flagbearer, biathlete and cross-country skier Lyudmila Pavlenko entered the stadium wearing a top emblazoned with the word "Peace".
But her actions did not overshadow a ceremony which involved 462 performers and 8,000 volunteers.
International Paralympic Commitee president Philip Craven told spectators at the stadium: "The Paralympic Spirit has united and infected us all. Proud Paralympians -- your inspirational athletic performances have redefined the boundaries of possibility.
"You have shown the world that absolutely anything is possible and that life is about amazing capabilities and not perceived deficiencies.
"With record numbers of highly enthusiastic spectators supporting you all, you have shown what real grit and determination looks like. Through record TV audiences and media coverage, you have opened up the eyes of the world to what the human spirit can achieve."
Russia's hero of the Games was Roman Petushkov who won six gold medals -- the most by any individual at a single Paralympics.
The 36-year-old, who lost both his legs in a car accident eight years ago, made his Paralympic debut in Vancouver where he won two medals.
After winning five world titles in the Sweden last year, he responded to the pressure magnificently with six golds.
Competing in the seated division of cross country and biathlon, he won the 7.5kilometer, 12km and 15km biathlon as well as the cross country 1km, 15km and the 4x2.5km relay.
One of the other outstanding stories of the Games was the achievement of Brian McKeever, who won his 10th Paralympic title.
The 34-year-old visually impaired cross-country skier, competing in his fourth Paralympics, won three gold medals in Sochi and could yet defend his titles at Korea 2018.
Germany's Anna Schaffelhuber was a five-time gold medal winner at Sochi following a series of sublime sit-ski displays.
Schaffelhuber  won the women's giant slalom Sunday to go on top of the downhill, super G, slalom and super combined in the women's sitting class in Sochi. 
Speaking at the closing ceremony, Russia's deputy prime minister, Dmitry Kozak, told spectators that the Games "had gone far beyond sports competitions."
He said: They showed what people from different countries and nationalities different cultures and traditions are capable of when they are united by a single goal and an inspired dream.
"Attitudes toward people with an impairment have changed among Russian society. The Paralympic Winter Games have become a catalyst for our efforts to create a barrier-free environment in Russia. 
"The Games are over, but we promise that this important work will continue throughout our vast country."
A vote in Crimea has brought up more questions about the future of Ukraine. We'll cover preliminary results and responses from other countries. There's also a shift in focus and the search area concerning a missing Malaysia Airlines plane. And a symbol of hope stands in Japan, three years after a series of disasters struck the country.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.  
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
How might the outcome of an election be reported differently by different countries' news media?  
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.  Where is Crimea?  What did voters there decide yesterday?  How have Russia, Ukraine, the European Union and the United States responded to this vote?  
2.  According to the video:  What happened to two communication systems on board Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 while en route to Beijing?  Why do authorities now believe those systems stopped working?  What other strange maneuvers did the plane make?  Why do authorities believe that these were deliberate actions?  
3.  What disasters struck Japan three years ago?  What is a tsunami?  What happened to the town of Rikuzentakata on Japan's northeast coast?  What is the "Miracle Pine"?  What was done when salt water threatened the life of this tree? 
4.  Why have over 100,000 people marched across frozen Lake Superior this winter?  How do they describe what they see?  What are the caves made of?  What causes the ice formations?  
5.  What republic in Western Europe is celebrating its national holiday today?  About how many Americans say they have Irish ancestry?  
1.  What options do you think Russia, the U.S., and the European Union have concerning the Crimea vote?  What consequences might each option have? 
2.  Why might an object remaining after a disaster become a symbol for survivors?  Do you think that images of these kinds of objects are powerful?  Explain. 
3.  Can you think of any other natural geologic features, like the ice caves shown in the video, that attract tourists?  Explain.  Have you ever visited any of these kinds of formations?  If so, where did you go and what did you see?  What did you learn from the experience?  
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Preliminary results in Sunday's referendum on whether Ukraine's Crimea region should join Russia or become an independent state show overwhelming support for Russia.
With 75% percent of the ballots counted, close to 96% of voters want to become part of that country, according to the Crimean Electoral Commission. An official had announced earlier that more than 80% of voters had cast ballots by the time polls closed at 8 p.m. local time (2 p.m. ET) Sunday.
"We are going home. Crimea is in Russia," Crimea's Prime Minister Sergey Aksyonov told crowds celebrating in Simferopol's Lenin Square. Music blared as they cheered and waved Russian flags.
The United States has already said it expects the Black Sea peninsula's majority ethnic Russian population to vote in favor of joining Russia. Moscow has strongly backed the referendum.
U.S. President Barack Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke Sunday, according to a readout from the White House.
"President Obama emphasized that the Crimean 'referendum,' which violates the Ukrainian constitution and occurred under duress of Russian military intervention, would never be recognized by the United States and the international community," it said. "He emphasized that Russia's actions were in violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and that, in coordination with our European partners, we are prepared to impose additional costs on Russia for its actions."
Earlier, the White House released a statement that said the vote was "administered under threats of violence and intimidation from a Russian military intervention that violates international law."
The voting has put the United States and Russia on the kind of collision course not seen since the end of the Cold War.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry reaffirmed in a call with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov that the United States considered the referendum illegal under Ukrainian law and that the United States would not recognize the outcome.<U+00A0> 
The European Union on Sunday repeated its "strong condemnation" of the referendum and called on Russia to withdraw its troops from the region. It, too, has called the referendum illegal and said it is looking at sanctions.
Lavrov said in a statement Saturday that Crimea's referendum conforms to international law.
European nations and the United States have announced some targeted punishments against Russia and have threatened tougher sanctions if the secession vote goes through, as now appears likely.
At a polling station in Perevalnoye, near a military base, a steady stream of voters arrived to cast their ballots despite the wintry weather.
Blaring dance tunes and Russian folk music welcomed them to the polling station, in an echo of Soviet times. What appeared to be a group of Russian soldiers -- without identifying insignia but with Russian license plates on their vehicles -- stood nearby.
One voter, Grigory Illarionovich, told CNN, "I'm for restoring Crimea to Russia. Returning what Khrushchev took away."
The Black Sea peninsula was part of Russia until Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev gave it to Ukraine in 1954. Ukraine was then part of the Soviet Union.
Another voter in Perevalnoye, Viktor Savchenko, said he would never vote for the government in Kiev. "I want us to join Russia, and live like Russians, with all their rights," he said. 
Victoria Khudyakova said she also had voted to join Russia, which she sees as being "spiritually close" to Crimea. "For me, Russia is an opportunity for our Crimea to develop, to bloom. And I believe that it will be so," she said. 
But Ukraine's Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk, speaking in Kiev, dismissed the referendum as illegitimate under Ukrainian and international law and improperly run. 
He said Ukrainian authorities had information from Crimea about voting irregularities, including people who are not Crimean citizens casting ballots, the absence of proper monitoring and the presence of armed men.
Mikhail Malyshev, the head of the Crimean Election Commission, said there was no information that people with foreign passports were voting in the referendum. He also said no "provocations" had been reported at polling stations.
CNN analyst and Russian journalist Vladimir Pozner similarly stressed that Sunday's vote was in no way staged.
"When you look at the celebrations, you can't doubt that these people really are very happy," he said.
In Simferopol, voters filed into a polling place, picked up white and yellow ballots and headed to private booths to fill them out before dropping them through the slits of clear ballot boxes.
In another polling station, the vast majority of ballots dropped in the boxes appeared to be marked in favor of joining Russia.
Some 80% of voters turning out at a polling station in Bakhchysaray were not on the electoral roll, the registrar told CNN. Those not on the roll have their passports and papers checked to establish identity. On the spot, election staff decide, with a show of hands, whether to allow those voters to participate.
A CNN team photographed one voter dropping two pieces of paper into the ballot box, raising questions over how effectively the vote is being monitored.
Turnout was high, but many Crimean Tatars, an ethnic Turkic group with deep roots on the peninsula, were boycotting the vote, as were many ethnic Ukrainians. 
Tatars, who make up about 12% of the Crimean population, have faced severe persecution in the past, when Crimea belonged to Russia. On Saturday, representatives issued a statement recognizing Ukraine with its present borders, which would include Crimea.
They asked the Ukrainian parliament in Kiev for more legal protection for their ethnic group.
Much pro-Russian propaganda has been in evidence in the run-up to the referendum, both on the airwaves and in the form of campaign posters showing the Crimean Peninsula painted with either a Nazi swastika or the Russian flag.
Moscow has insisted it has the right to protect ethnic Russians in Ukraine, who it claims are threatened by radical nationalists and "fascists."
Pro-Russian troops remain firmly in control of the Black Sea peninsula. Ukraine and the West insist the soldiers belong to Moscow, but the Kremlin vehemently denies it, saying they are Crimean "self-defense" forces.
Ukraine's acting Defense Minister Ihor Tenyukh said Sunday that Ukraine had reached an agreement "with the Russian side" that Russian forces will allow the delivery of food and basic supplies to Ukrainian military bases in Crimea until Friday. The bases have been blockaded for days.
Tenyukh told a Cabinet meeting that there are now 21,500 Russian troops on Crimean soil. Russia is entitled to station 25,000 troops at its leased Sevastopol naval base -- but the question is where those troops are.
Tenyukh also said Ukrainian troops and equipment are being moved into Ukraine's east and south, in line with where Russian military forces are located.
Moscow has been carrying out mass military exercises not far from Ukraine's eastern border.
Russia tightened its military grip on Saturday within Ukraine. About 60 Russian troops in six helicopters and three armored vehicles reportedly crossed into Ukraine's Kherson region and were in the town of Strilkove, on a strip of land just northeast of Crimea.
The region is key to neighboring Crimea, because it gets electricity, fresh water and natural gas from there. The Russians said they were in Kherson to prevent a possible terrorist attack on oil assets, according to Ukrainian border guards.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel criticized Russian activities in Kherson in a phone call with Putin on Sunday, according to a statement from her office. 
She urged an increase in the presence of observers from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, so they can quickly be sent to contested areas, especially in eastern Ukraine, and called on Putin to talk to the government in Kiev.
The Kremlin's readout of the phone call said the pair had "constructive" discussions on sending an OSCE observer mission to Ukraine.
Putin also voiced concern that "radical groups" in league with Kiev were stirring up tensions in eastern and southeastern Ukraine and argued that the Crimean referendum is legal, it said.
Ukraine's Cabinet said Sunday it had asked for a new OSCE diplomatic monitoring mission to be sent to Ukraine. A military observer mission is currently in the country but has been prevented from entering Crimea.
If the vote goes in favor of joining Russia, as it looks like it will, Crimea's government will declare its independence and ask Moscow to let it join the Russian Federation. Russian lawmakers have said they'll vote on the question on Friday.
Christopher Hill, a former U.S. ambassador to South Korea, Iraq and Poland, described Sunday as a bad day for East-West relations.
"Putin has left our president with no choice. He needs to impose sanctions. I know Putin will come back and impose his own," he said. "I think the end of this is going to be to cast Russia out into the cold. And the problem is, I don't think Putin really cares. I think this is where he wants to take Russia."
In Simferopol and other places with Russian majorities, blue, white and red Russian flags have dominated the streets. 
In the coastal Crimean town of Sevastopol, concerts on the main square have been celebrating the return to the "motherland" this past week. 
"Everybody believes the results are already rigged," said CNN iReporter Maia Mikhaluk from Kiev. 
"People are concerned what is going to happen after the referendum," she said. "People are concerned that the Russian army will use force, guns to push (the) Ukrainian army from Crimea."
In the city of Donetsk, near the Russian border in eastern Ukraine, pro-Russian demonstrators stormed the prosecutor's office, forcing their way through a door of the building.
The activists are demanding the release of pro-Moscow movement leader Pavel Gubarev, who was arrested on March 6 for leading an occupation of the regional administration office.
Earlier, thousands of pro-Russian demonstrators gathered for a second day in a central Donetsk square before marching through the city. Riot police stood on guard outside the offices of Ukraine's security service and the regional administration.
Addressing the Cabinet meeting, acting Interior Minister Arsen Avakov said small rallies in Donetsk and another nearby city, Lugansk, had ended. About 4,000 pro-Russian protesters have gathered for a third rally, in Kharkiv, he said.
Crimeans voted to break off from Ukraine and join Russia. Their vote represents the re-establishment of a historic cultural relationship.
But take away the emotional side of the Crimean referendum and reality hits home -- the economic challenges that are yet to knock on their door.
The peninsula only produces one-tenth of the energy it consumes. Ninety percent of its water, 80% of its electricity, and roughly 65% of its gas come from the rest of Ukraine.
And while Russia has enough energy to supply power to Crimea, it's lacking the infrastructure -- there are not even any underwater cables though the Strait of Kerch, which separates Russia and Crimea.
Crimean authorities set out their plan to nationalize the oil and gas company Chernomorneftegaz, but according to Lilit Gevorgyan, Senior Economist at IHS, that may not be enough to "solve fully their energy problems and ...  become independent of Ukraine."
Crimea depends heavily on the Ukrainian mainland to balance its books. Around 70% of Crimea's $1.2 billion budget comes directly from Kiev. 
Annexation of Crimea would be costly for Russia too because Crimea will need similar support, if not more, from Moscow. And while Russia's economy is stable, it is not growing.
Moscow recently announced it will invest between $5 billion and $6 billion in Crimea, according to Helena Yakovlev Golani at the University of Toronto. The costs begin to add up -- and that's not including the challenges of integrating the banking system and currency and validating land titles. 
For the Crimeans, the most noticeable change could be the lack of tourists this season, with many expecting visitors to cancel tours because of the crisis.
This will be damaging for Crimea, according to Ukraine's Tourism Board, given that Crimea attracted 6 million tourists last year. Seventy percent of holiday makers in the region are domestic visitors from mainland Ukraine.
The crisis has been portrayed as a geopolitical struggle between Russia and the West, but it will also affect ordinary people;  they still need to eat, pay bills and dress their children. 
Some in Crimea have portrayed the situation as an economic crisis, but actions on the ground suggest this is less about the economy and more about Russia's desire to project power in a strategically important region.
Editors' Note: This article has been edited to remove plagiarized content after CNN discovered multiple instances of plagiarism by Marie-Louise Gumuchian, a former CNN news editor.
The spectacle of Russia swallowing pieces of a neighboring country while claiming to defend its people would make George Orwell grimace with recognition. This weekend's charade, a "referendum" in which we're told more than 96% voted to join Russia, fits perfectly with the Orwellian narrative.
In this twilight zone of make-believe, Russian troops invade after removing the insignias from their uniforms and Putin explains, "You can go to a store and buy a uniform," claiming they are local "self-defense forces." Maybe Crimean shops also sell machine guns and armored personnel carriers. In this world of double-speak and misinformation, Moscow is manipulating the message, intimidating, twisting facts and lying -- the more absurd the propaganda the better.
My personal favorite is the branding of Crimea's independence push as the  "Russian Spring." The most famous independence "spring" was the 1968 "Prague Spring," a push to expand freedoms in Czechoslovakia that was crushed by Soviet tanks. On second thought, maybe Ukrainians should embrace irony and call this charade a Russian Spring.
Do not believe those who say the result is fair or an accurate reflection of the popular will.
Sure, the Russian speakers in Crimea are intoxicated with Russian nationalism right now. So are millions in the motherland, who have heard the persistent false claims about grave threats, even warning  of genocide against Russia's "brothers" in Crimea and elsewhere in Ukraine. The more you hear about threats to ethnic Russians, the closer Putin is getting to launching an expanded invasion.
Look for claims of "requests for protection" from Moscow. After all, how can Moscow not help. And ignore the Russian agents sowing unrest. The unrest is the required pretext. Russia will come and "pacify." This tactic was not invented by Putin; it left a fetid track in the history of European empire-building, ethnic cleansing and warfare.
Before the propaganda campaign, a poll reported in The Washington Post found  a majority of Crimeans were not exactly yearning to join Russia. More than half said their homeland was Crimea, and 35% said Ukraine. About 12 % of Crimeans are Muslim Tatars who despise Russia. About one-quarter are ethnic Ukrainians. You can bet they feel absolutely no affection for Russia today.
The referendum process was a travesty. Thousands of invading soldiers, no campaigning to hear differing views, no choice on the ballot for the status quo, intimidation of opponents, and a lightning-fast schedule after the local government is overthrown under the watch of armed men in unmarked camouflage fatigues. Democracy? You tell me.
The referendum was not just a violation of democratic norms and Ukrainian law, it was a clear violation of international law.
A Kremlin statement said Putin told U.S. President Barack Obama  that Crimean independence echoes the "Kosovo experience." He may come to regret bringing up the former Yugoslavia, which unraveled in an orgy of ethnic and nationalism-driven bloodshed in the 1990s.
No country annexed Kosovo, and that experience has little in common with Crimea. No one has accused the new Ukrainian government of persecuting Crimea's Russians the way Serbian forces ever did.
The new Ukrainian government does contain an element of extreme right-wingers, who should be isolated and removed. The large mainstream of Ukraine's government, including its prime minister, is moderate, liberal, democratic and peaceful.
Already Putin has reserved the right to "defend" Russians in other parts of Ukraine. So-called self-defense forces captured a gas terminal close to Crimea, just inside Ukraine.
There are clear signs that Putin has designs on eastern Ukraine. He may not have decided yet. And what if he orders an invasion there? What if he goes for the rest of Ukraine? After all, Russia has close ties to Crimea, but it also has strong emotional ties to Kiev. And then? Many neighboring republics are getting nervous. Their history books are replete with stories of conquest. Would Moscow dare? We just don't know.
The West should set up a dual track response. First, help the new Ukraine succeed. Ukrainian prosperity, democracy, anti-corruption reform, everything the Ukrainians say they want. Many in Russia want it too.
At the same time, impose sanctions and set up trip wires -- escalating sanctions that will go into effect if Russia makes more military moves. If Moscow makes a move to seize more of Ukraine, tell the Republic of Georgia, which yearns to join NATO and already lost territory to a similar Russian move, that its request will go on an approval track.
The U.S. and Europe need to work together and speak with one voice. Obama is traveling to Europe in the next few days. Meetings with NATO allies should produce more than statements. They should produce more than threats. Real sanctions will make Putin rethink his next move, especially if they affect his oligarch friends, who enjoy homes in London and ski trips in the Alps.
Sanctions require full European participation. Much has been made of Europe's need for Russian natural gas. But gas sales are  a double-edged sword. Russia needs its European customers. America's newfound gas riches could help Europe gain independence from Moscow.
The long-term goal is to convince Russia that the use of force is counterproductive, that the costs outweigh the benefits. Ukraine will always be Russia's neighbor. One country's prosperity will benefit the other.
For now, however, Putin views Ukraine's dash for an independent, pro-Western future as a challenge to his worldview; to his goal of a Eurasian future dominated by Moscow. He has shown he is prepared to use force.
He has also shown that he wants a veneer of legitimacy for his actions. That's why he is taking the trouble of placing Orwellian labels and going through faux-democratic moves. If Putin believes each region should have the right to choose in what country it belongs, he has just smashed a hornet's nest.  
Whatever U.S. and European leaders may say, it seems clear a majority of the residents of Crimea were only too happy to abandon Ukraine and join the Russian Federation. The referendum held there on Sunday was illegal according to Ukrainian constitutional law and took place under duress, following the large-scale incursion of "pro-Russian forces" -- and voters did not have the choice to say "no" to severing ties with Kiev.
But these failings aside, it appears plain that most of Crimea's population, with the exception of the Tatar minority and some ethnic Ukrainians, was content to return to what it regards as its ancestral home. The crucial turnout figures of up to 83% are suspect and may well be inflated. But independent reporting of enthusiastic celebrations suggested the overall outcome genuinely reflected popular wishes -- and was crudely democratic.
For this reason, it is unwise of U.S. President Barack Obama and his European counterparts to declare they will "never" recognize the Crimean result. 
This crisis erupted when anti-Russian opposition forces in Kiev overthrew the country's democratically-elected president, Viktor Yanukovych. This action, too, was illegal under Ukraine's constitutional law and had little support in Crimea. But it was swiftly endorsed by Washington and in European capitals.
Now, faced by the pro-Russian opposition's rebound success in Crimea and a political result he does not like, Obama cries foul and refuses to accept the outcome. He cannot have it both ways.
In his telephone conversation with Obama on Sunday, Russian President Vladimir Putin quoted the "Kosovo precedent," a reference to the recognition by the U.S. and several European states (but not Russia) of a 2008 declaration of independence by the provincial assembly in Pristina, even though Kosovo was then still a part of Serbia.
The unrepentant Russian president's slightly disingenuous question to Obama was: So what's the difference? 
The right of self-determination of peoples is guaranteed under Chapter One of the U.N. Charter. 
In South Sudan (which became independent in 2011), in East Timor, in Croatia and Montenegro and various other Balkan states, the U.S. and its allies have upheld and encouraged this principle. A similar process is currently underway in Scotland. If Catalonia enjoyed a similar freedom, it would quite possibly part company with Spain.
The answer given by Western governments when confronted with the "Kosovo precedent" is that each case is different and indeed, unique, and must therefore be treated on its separate merits. But this, too, is a slightly spurious argument, akin to the hypothesis which states that my invasion of a country (Iraq or Afghanistan, for example) is legally and morally justified, whereas your invasion is not.
In pragmatic as well as theoretical terms, it is a mistake to make of the assisted, hurried but essentially voluntary secession of Crimea a major issue of principle on which there can "never" be compromise. It will obscure the bigger picture. The key challenge for Obama and the EU is not the fate of Crimea per se, but what its destabilising departure implies for the future of Ukraine as a whole and for the wider region.
The sanctions and other punishments now being prepared for Russia in Washington and Brussels should pivot on what Moscow does or does not do next, most especially in the cities of eastern Ukraine where additional, large ethnic Russian populations live but so too do many non-Russian Ukrainians. This pre-emptive policy should also apply to Moldova (which has a breakaway, pro-Russian region known as Transnistria), to the Baltic states, and to Georgia, where Putin might be tempted to intrude again.
Putin was left in a minority of one at the U.N. Security Council at the weekend because Chapter One of the U.N. Charter also states the following: "All members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state."
Whether Putin has absolutely contravened this principle in Crimea may be open to debate. But eastern Ukraine, with its mixed populations, heritage and loyalties, is a different matter altogether -- which even China, which did not support Moscow at the U.N., understands. If an emboldened Putin now makes the mistake of thinking he can extend his modern-day form of rolling Anschluss into these areas, he must be knocked back very hard indeed.
That means going much further, and acting much tougher, than the rather feeble travel and visa bans now being discussed will allow. An Iran-style sanctions regime blocking energy exports, investment, banking and other mainstream business and commercial activities such as arms sales would be more appropriate. So, too, would be direct U.S. and European military assistance to Kiev, as proposed by Senator John McCain.
Judging by his behaviour in Chechnya and elsewhere since he first became Russia's prime minister in 1999, Putin is a bully with a massive inferiority complex who responds to strength, not weakness. When Obama stresses that diplomatic solutions can still be found, as he did on Sunday, Putin reads that as fear. You can almost hear the snigger.
The only way to stop this strutting menace, if he continues to over-reach, is to frighten him right back -- and if necessary, help create the conditions inside Russia in which he and his ugly, reactionary regime are brought down.
Exactly six months from now, Scots will go to the polls to vote on the future of their country. 
It's a vote that could end Scotland's 300-year union with England and Wales as Great Britain -- and see it launch into the world as an independent nation of some 5.3 million people.
Russian lawmakers have drawn a parallel between Scotland's vote and the referendum held in Ukraine's Crimea region Sunday. 
But any such comparison is disingenuous: The referendum in Scotland is being held with the consent of the UK government, it will be internationally recognized, and Scotland's people have had years to consider what is a genuine choice.
By contrast, the referendum held in Crimea was illegal under Ukrainian constitutional law and took place under duress, only days after armed "pro-Russian forces" took effective control of the peninsula. Voters also did not have the option of saying "no" to cutting ties with Kiev.
On September 18, voters will be presented with a simple yes/no question: Should Scotland be an independent country? 
The Scottish government, led by the Scottish National Party, says this is a "once in a generation opportunity" for Scotland's people to take control of the decisions that affect them most. A "yes" vote means that "Scotland's future will be in Scotland's hands," it says, and that life will be better and fairer for its people.
British Prime Minister David Cameron wants Scotland to remain part of an undivided United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. He says that it is a decision solely for the Scottish people -- but that remaining part of the United Kingdom will give them security and strength. "There will be no going back," he warns.
Because the United Kingdom has no written constitution, there's no established law to govern the process. So these are truly uncharted waters.
Scotland has long had a testy relationship with its more populous neighbor. The Act of Union in 1707 joined the kingdom of Scotland with England and Wales, but many Scots were unhappy at being yoked to their longtime rival south of the border.
Since 1999, Scotland has had devolved government, meaning many, but not all, decisions are made at the Scottish Parliament in Holyrood, Edinburgh. In May 2011, the nationalist Scottish National Party, which had campaigned on a promise to hold an independence referendum, surprised many by winning an outright majority in the Scottish Parliament.
In October 2012, the UK and Scottish governments agreed that the referendum would be held, and the question to be put to voters was agreed on early last year.
Dauvit Broun, a professor of Scottish history at the University of Glasgow, says one driving force for the vote is the widening gulf between the policies pursued by the coalition UK government in Westminster, led by the Conservative Party under Cameron since 2010, and what the Scottish people want.
Many Scots are strongly opposed to the current Westminster government's attempts to reform -- or in their eyes dismantle -- the welfare state. Illustrating that sentiment, there's only one Conservative MP in Scotland at present.
"Since the period of Margaret Thatcher, there has been a growing divide, and a sense that what Scotland feels consensus about ... has become more and more different to England," Broun says.
Looking further back, Scotland and England have been growing apart since the demise of the British Empire, Broun says. The decline of the Presbyterian church in Scotland, which provided a sense of self-government and Scottish identity, has also played a part in fueling the desire for independence, he says.
Thanks to a bill passed last year extending the vote to 16- and 17-year-olds, essentially everyone living in Scotland who is 16 or older on the date of the referendum will be able to vote. 
This means English or Welsh citizens who reside in Scotland can take part. But Scots who are living elsewhere in the United Kingdom or overseas will not be entitled to cast a ballot.
It also means that the residents of England, Wales and Northern Ireland get no vote on a historic change to the makeup of the United Kingdom.
This is another big but unresolved question. Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond, leader of the Scottish National Party, has said he wants Scotland to continue to use the pound in a currency union with the rest of the United Kingdom.
But the three main parties in Westminster -- David Cameron's Conservatives, their coalition partners the Liberal Democrats, and Labour -- have all said this won't be an option. The Scottish government responded that this was "bullying" from Westminster.
A Treasury briefing paper last month warned that "currency unions between sovereign states are fraught with difficulty" and advised strongly against entering into one with Scotland, citing uncertainty and the risk of insolvency as factors.
Despite this, Scotland could decide to use sterling unofficially, Broun says. Also unclear is what would happen to Scotland's share of UK debt if it's not part of a currency union, he adds.
"The UK government doesn't want to talk about something they don't want to happen, but as a result they've created uncertainty," Broun says.
It's still not clear how an independent Scotland would fit into the European Union. It's an important issue because EU membership brings economic benefits, as well as greater global clout. 
Panos Koutrakos, a professor of European law at City University London, says Scotland sees EU membership as indispensable, even as Cameron has promised a UK-wide referendum on the question if he's re-elected next year.
By leaving the United Kingdom, Scotland would have to renegotiate its membership in the 28-nation bloc. The big questions are: How would this be done, and how long might it take?
The heads of the European Commission and European Council, Jose Manuel Barroso and Herman Van Rompuy, have said Scotland would have to apply for membership in the same way as any other independent state. This "hard position" means Scotland would have to negotiate an accession agreement with all the existing EU members, Koutrakos said.
The Scottish government says that since it's already a member as part of the UK, and abides by EU laws, it could join through an amendment to existing treaties -- a quicker and potentially easier route. The Scottish government says this could be achieved within 18 months of a vote for independence.
The Scottish government argues the country would be better off after independence, largely based on its taking control of revenues from North Sea oil and gas found in Scottish waters.
Salmond said this month that new government figures show the underlying strength of the Scottish economy. "Over the last five-year period, Scotland would've been G8 billion better off standing on its own two feet than as part of the United Kingdom," he said. "That's about G1,600 for every man, woman and child in the country."
The Scottish government says it would manage the energy industry better, invest to boost production, and create a wealth fund, similar to Norway's oil fund, to benefit future generations.
A report by the Institute for Fiscal Studies this month said the latest figures showed Scotland's budget deficit had worsened relative to the rest of the United Kingdom, thanks to falling North Sea revenues and higher public spending north of the border.
The IFS warns of the dangers of relying too heavily on a volatile and ultimately finite income source. "In planning for independence, the Scottish Government should be cautious in its fiscal assessment, and avoid building its budget on the back of optimistic forecasts for North Sea revenues," it said.
The Scottish government says the economy is diverse, with other key elements including food and drink, tourism, creative industries, universities, financial services and manufacturing. 
A "yes" vote would mean Scotland splits from the rest of the United Kingdom -- that is, England, Wales and Northern Ireland. 
The Scottish government anticipates it would become formally independent in March 2016, ahead of elections in May of that year.
Once it's independent, it says, tax and social security rates will be set in line with the wishes of the people of Scotland. Decisions will no longer be imposed by parties in Westminster.
Scotland already has an independent legal system and education system. Post-independence, changes to the law would be agreed to in the Scottish Parliament.
The Scottish government says it wants to remove nuclear weapons from Scotland as soon as possible -- namely, the UK Trident nuclear submarine fleet based at Faslane. It cites different priorities for spending, such as social programs.
Tourism is big business for Scotland -- and the Scottish government won't want to lose out post-independence.
But what would it mean for the tourists for so long drawn to Scotland's legendary offerings -- from its castles, lochs and misty moorlands, to its whisky distilleries, Edinburgh's stately architecture and Glasgow's vibrant urban scene?
It's unclear if the uncertainty over Scotland's future currency will discourage visitors from crossing from England.
The Scottish government intends to set its own immigration policy after independence. It has said it envisages "free movement across the border between Scotland and England" for UK citizens, in the same way as they can travel freely to Ireland. But its border controls will depend in part on its accession to the European Union.
The Scottish government says it plans to cut air passenger duty, making it cheaper for international travelers to fly into Scottish airports.
It's not just tourists who may be eyeing potential changes to immigration policy. More than 30,000 international students from more than 150 countries study at institutions in Scotland.
Opinion polls suggest campaigners for a "yes" vote still have some way to go. A YouGov poll in February found that 52% of those surveyed would say "no" to Scottish independence while 34% would say "yes," up one point from the previous month.
South of the border, opposition to Scotland leaving the union seems to be strengthening, according to nonpartisan research group What Scotland Thinks. Polls conducted in the past month in England and Wales, for the Sunday Times and Observer newspapers, found only a fifth of those surveyed were in favor of Scottish independence, with just over 60% opposed.
Cameron says the loss of Scotland would leave the United Kingdom "deeply diminished." While only 4 million people will vote, he says, the result will impact 63 million within the United Kingdom.
It's not just the politicians who are getting involved. Singer David Bowie, in a Brit Awards acceptance speech last month delivered by supermodel Kate Moss, pleaded, "Scotland, stay with us."
Former Manchester United football club manager Alex Ferguson also opposes a split and has backed the "Better Together" campaign. "800,000 Scots, like me, live and work in other parts of the United Kingdom. We don't live in a foreign country; we are just in another part of the family of the UK," he is quoted as saying.
The "Yes" campaign also has some celebrity backers -- including former James Bond actor Sean Connery and comedian Frankie Boyle.
Connery, who can't vote in the referendum since he lives outside Scotland, wrote in the New Statesman that "the opportunity of independence is too good to miss."
READ: Scotland independence plan shows 'position of strength,' government says
Russian President Vladimir Putin clearly called their bluff on Tuesday, announcing steps for his country to annex the Crimean Peninsula from neighboring Ukraine.
President Barack Obama and European allies had warned such a move would bring tougher sanctions and diplomatic isolation, but there was little immediate response Tuesday to Putin's bold pronouncement in the Russian parliament.
The White House announced that Obama invited leaders of the G7 industrial powers to meet next week on the sidelines of a nuclear security summit in the Netherlands to discuss the Ukraine crisis.
Presumably, such a gathering by Obama and his counterparts from Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Canada would consider scrapping their annual summit with Russia planned for July in Sochi, and perhaps kicking Putin out of the G8 club altogether.
Both moves have been threatened, with the G7 nations already halting preparations for the Sochi meeting.
White House spokesman Jay Carney strongly hinted Tuesday that it would get scrapped, telling reporters that "preparations for that summit have been suspended, summits don't occur without preparations" and "those preparations look unlikely to resume any time soon."
On Monday, Obama and the European Union imposed sanctions on specific Russian and Crimean officials as part of steps intended to be easily expanded if necessary.
Carney said the moves already hurt the Russian economy and the ruble currency, and he indicated further actions were coming.
"You have seen some designations already and there are more to come," he said of individuals cited for sanctions.
"I wouldn't, if I were you, invest in Russian equities right now unless you were going short," Carney advised, in reference to investors speculating on a losing venture.
However, Carney made clear that the U.S. approach focused for now on isolating Russia diplomatically and economically.
"This action -- the results of the referendum and the attempts to annex a region of Ukraine illegally --  will never be recognized by the United States" and the international community, he said, with "further actions, further provocations" by Russia leading to "higher costs."
Secretary of State John Kerry had a more reflective take, telling a town hall-style meeting that the administration still hoped for a diplomatic solution "but today was very confrontational and very triumphalist about something that is a breach of international law, and I think people are deeply concerned about it."
Meanwhile, Vice President Joe Biden began a tour of former Soviet bloc nations now NATO allies by pledging the full support of the strategic alliance against any Russian aggression similar to what has occurred in Ukraine.
"Our intent is that NATO emerge from this crisis stronger and more unified than ever," Biden said at his first stop in Warsaw. "Our commitment is absolutely unwavering and unshakeable."
He noted the United States deployed more jet fighters in the region to bolster NATO air policing, and he called Putin's moves to add Crimea to the Russian Federation a "blatant, blatant violation of international law" and "nothing more than a land grab."
Speaking to reporters at a joint news conference with Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk, Biden said Russia responded to Ukraine's efforts to realize a more democratic future "with a brazen, brazen military incursion, with a purposeful ratcheting up of ethnic tensions inside Ukraine, with a rushed and illegal referendum in Crimea that was, not surprisingly, rejected by virtually the entire world."
Biden also warned Moscow that its political and economic isolation will increase if it continues such aggression, and he reiterated support for Ukraine in the form of a billion-dollar loan guarantee as well as technical assistance to prepare for elections and support for reforms that will allow the International Monetary Fund to provide a stabilization package to the cash-strapped country.
The vice president's visit comes two days before European Union leaders will meet in Brussels for talks certain to include the Ukraine crisis.
For his part, Putin appeared unfazed by the initial U.S. and EU steps, telling the parliament on Tuesday that Russia already races lingering sanctions from the Cold War that still exist in practice.
He called the events that led to last month's ouster of Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych a "state coup" carried out through "terror and murders and pogroms" by "Russiaphobes and anti-Semites."
The United States rejects Putin's characterization of the Ukraine political upheaval, instead calling it a demonstration of democratic aspirations by the Ukrainian people.
Underlying the conflict was Yanukovych's moves prior to his ouster to align more closely with Moscow instead of proceeding with a shift toward closer association with the EU.
At home, Obama has come under criticism from Republicans who complain an unwillingness by the administration to take on Putin on other issues has now emboldened the Russian leader.
Conservative Sen. John McCain of Arizona called for more sanctions against Russia and increased assistance for Ukraine, a stance backed by House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia.
"I support the President's decision to issue sanctions against Russian leaders, but that list must be dramatically expanded to exert real pressure," Cantor said Tuesday, also urging that Russia be kicked out of G8 and for the United States to provide military support needed by Ukraine.
Russia's president signs a treaty to annex Crimea. On today's show, we'll tell you why, and we'll report on how some members of the international community are responding. We also cover challenges facing General Motors, a theory that's making waves among some scientists, and reasons behind the madness of March.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.  
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
Is promoting consumer safety a responsibility of the news media?  If not, why not?  If so, how can the media do this? 
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.  What action did Russian President Vladimir Putin take yesterday regarding Crimea?  How have the United States and the European Union responded to this action?
2.  How many veterans were awarded the Medal of Honor yesterday?  In what wars did these individuals serve?  Why were some awarded the medals so long after their service?  What did President Obama say about their courage?
3.  Who is Mary Barra?  What huge challenge is she facing as the leader of her company?  According to the video:  How might her "insider status" be a liability in this situation?  What do crisis management experts suggest she do?  Why might this advice be difficult to follow?
4.  What do some researchers say they have discovered regarding the Big Bang theory?  How did they get this information?  What critical responses have there been regarding this announcement? 
5.  What sports event is known as "March Madness"?  How many teams qualify for the tournament?  According to the video, what impact does March Madness have on business productivity in the U.S.?  Why?  
1.  What impact do you think that stories of bravery in wartime have on an audience?  How might the stories of heroes who faced discrimination demonstrate additional lessons in character?  
2.  In your opinion, what course of action should Mary Barra take in the wake of General Motors' car recall?  Why do you think that public perception of a company is important?  How can public perception have a financial impact on a business?  
3.  What is your opinion of the Big Bang theory?  What is the rationale for your view?  
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Subjects covered today include the Middle East conflict, sanctions on some Russian officials, two recent earthquakes, and a theory about a missing passenger plane. You'll also meet a drummer who, after losing part of his arm, gained new abilities thanks to robotics.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.  
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
How might different forms of media be used to inform people in the aftermath of an earthquake?
Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show:
1.  Who is Mahmoud Abbas?  Who is Benjamin Netanyahu?  Why have both of these leaders visited President Obama in recent weeks?  What are some sources of disagreement between Abbas and Netanyahu?  
2.  How have the U.S. and the European Union responded to the Crimea vote?  Who is being penalized by these sanctions?  How has Russia responded?
3.  What country was struck by the largest earthquake ever recorded?  How strong was the earthquake that struck off the coast of Chile on Sunday?  How strong was the quake that hit Los Angeles, California, on Monday morning?  According to the video:  What should you do if you are inside a building during an earthquake?  What should you do if you're outside?  
4.  What theory is one Malaysian newspaper examining regarding Malaysia Airlines Flight 370?  According to the video, what challenges might exist for a pilot attempting to evade radar in a mountainous area?  How would the plane "warn" the pilot that it was flying too low?  What other big difference exists between the simulator exercise and the conditions under which Flight 370 was actually flying?
5.  What musical instrument does Jason Barnes play?  What did scientists at Georgia Tech create to help him continue to play after his accident?  How does this device work?
1.  Why do you think that several U.S. presidents have made Middle East peace a priority?  What are some ways in which a U.S. president could promote peace in the Middle East?  Why do you think that in spite of these efforts, a lasting peace in the region has not been achieved?
2.  What theories about the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 can be tested in a flight simulator?  What questions cannot be answered by these exercises?  How might the use of the flight simulator help to rule out some theories behind the plane's disappearance?  
3.  Have you seen other ways in which robotic devices are improving the lives of people with disabilities? Explain.  
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Depending on who you ask, Crimea's decision to secede from Ukraine was either an unconstitutional split manipulated by Russia or a move consistent with international law upholding the region's right to govern itself.
The United States and its European allies say Sunday's referendum vote violated Ukraine's newly reforged constitution and amounts to a thinly veiled attempt by Russia to expand its borders to the Black Sea peninsula under a threat of force.
Moscow asserts Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych was ousted in an illegal coup, which ended Ukraine's constitutional authority. Russian President Vladimir Putin argues Crimeans should have the right to decide how they want to be governed going forward.
"The answer depends on what your perspective is," said David Rothkopf, editor of Foreign Policy magazine. 
"The U.S. is buying into the argument of the Ukraine government, which is that the secession of Crimea from Ukraine is not constitutional under the terms of the Ukrainian constitution," Rothkopf said. 
"The alternative argument is that all peoples have a right of self-determination and that if the people of Crimea choose not to be part of Ukraine, that is their prerogative in the same way that it was the choice of colonial powers to break away from the imperial powers that claimed them or parts of the former Yugoslavia were free to head off on their own," he added.
The standoff between the United States and Russia resembles tension from the Cold War era.
"We'll continue to make clear to Russia that further provocations will achieve nothing except to further isolate Russia and diminish its place in the world," President Barack Obama said on Monday.
"The international community will continue to stand together to oppose any violations of Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity; and continued Russia military intervention in Ukraine will only deepen Russia's diplomatic isolation and exact a greater toll on the Russia economy," Obama said.
The United States and Europe imposed travel bans and froze assets of senior Russian and Crimean officials.
The Obama administration went a step further by banning entry and freezing all U.S. assets held by any Russian government official or people with close financial ties to 11 people, including advisers to Putin.
Separate from the vote, Crimean lawmakers approved a resolution on Monday that declared the Black Sea peninsula an independent, sovereign state and requested to join the Russian Federation.
Putin later in the day signed a decree that recognized Crimea's independence, the Kremlin said. He will address a joint session of Parliament on Crimea on Tuesday.
Putin spoke with German Chancellor Angela Merkel recently by phone and stressed the Crimean referendum was in accordance with international law, including Article 1 of the U.N. Charter regarding the principle of self-determination.
"It was emphasized that Russia will respect the choice of the Crimean people," according to a Kremlin statement summarizing that conversation.
Obama told Putin during a phone call on Sunday that "Russia's actions were in violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity," according to the White House. 
Putin pushed back, according to a statement from the Kremlin, and said the situation in Crimea is akin to Kosovo's breakaway from Serbia in 2008.
"Regarding the March 16 referendum in Crimea, Mr Putin said that the decision to hold the referendum was in line with international law and the U.N. Charter, and was also in line with the precedent set by Kosovo," the Kremlin said.
"The referendum was organized in such a way as to guarantee Crimea's population the possibility to freely express their will and exercise their right to self-determination," it said.
Even within Crimea's pro-Russia majority, opinions about the legality of seceding are split.
Voters proudly proclaimed their support for rejoining Russia as they stood in line in dreary weather to vote. However, one, who was too afraid to speak to CNN on camera,  proclaimed the referendum illegal.
The ethnic Tatars and younger voters have also questioned the legality of secession. Many of the Tatar minority boycotted the referendum with some leaders calling it "a farce" forced by armed men.
As the United States and Russia attempt to hash out their differences, pressure mounts for Putin to move quickly and carefully in resolving the Crimean crisis, Steven Pifer, a former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institute told CNN International.
"He basically has two choices.  Choice Number One would be to move fairly quickly to annex Crimea and that is going to then seem as a very naked land grab and will make it very difficult then for a dialogue to move forward," Pifer said. 
"That move will likely mean Western nations will ratchet up the level of sanctions, Pifer said.
"The alternative is they take the vote but that the Russians don't move very quickly," Pifer said.
"They let Crimea basically stay in some limbo status which will create some opportunity perhaps for negotiation that can diffuse this crisis."
Some people believed that one of the most democratic ways out of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine was to let people of Crimea decide their fates for themselves through a referendum. But there were a few serious flaws with that "democratic" approach.
Sunday, March 16, was a day many Ukrainians waited for with concern and dread. Originally, the referendum was planned for May 25, then moved up to March 30 and then once again moved to March 16. 
Prime Minister Sergey Aksyonov and Vladimir Konstantinov, speaker of Crimean Parliament, were eager to accomplish the task Russian President Vladimir Putin had given them. That task was to provide Russia with some kind of excuse for a military intervention that had in fact started on February 28, when there were reports of Russian soldiers occupying the Crimean Peninsula.
Long before the referendum took place, the international community expressed concerns about its legitimacy, and many people in Ukraine considered it illegal. This kind of referendum violates the Ukrainian Constitution, which specifies that it can be done only countrywide. And does this mean that Russia can invade any country where there is a Russian-speaking enclave? Russia even owned Alaska once. Should they get that back, too?
To no surprise, Aksyonov reported that more than 80% of people in Crimea voted in the referendum and 96% voted for Crimea to join Russia. 
The results themselves didn't matter, as everybody knew they would be false.
There are certainly some people who have been brainwashed by Russian TV channels (Ukrainian stations have been cut off in Crimea) and do believe in lies that in Russia Crimea will be given all kinds of advantages and privileges. But also consider that the vote took place under the guns of Russian troops and residents were given less than two weeks to prepare. It is unsafe to be pro-Ukrainian in Crimea right now, as the region is controlled by Russian military and hired thugs.
The announcement of results signaled to the people of Ukraine that a quiet waiting period of our conflict with Russia is probably over. Even though the United Nations, European Union, United States and other international observers do not recognize results of referendum, Russia is still claiming that Crimea will join with them. 
So the tension has come up to higher levels. The Ukrainian Parliament has announced partial mobilization of army reserves.
My friends and colleagues in Crimea tell me that people are standing in long lines to withdraw money from banks. Many ATMs do not have cash, and stores do not accept credit cards. Retired people are concerned about their pensions being paid on time.
Will our troops try to liberate Crimea from Russian invaders? Will Russian troops try to invade eastern regions of Ukraine where Russian provocateurs have been trying to cause trouble, too? Did Putin set his goals not just for Crimea but the whole of Ukraine? Putin keeps talking about Ukraine as a failed state and the Ukrainian government as not legitimate, though it's recognized by all other countries in the world. 
The bottom line is this: The referendum is a farce that the whole world has pronounced illegitimate, but it is being used by Putin to escalate conflict to next level.
His ambitions for restoring the Soviet Union in the form of a new Russian Empire are no secret. Even Putin's allies, such as Belarus and Kazakhstan, are nervous. It's hard to not be concerned if you live anywhere in Ukraine -- or in Poland, Latvia, Lithuania or Estonia. 
Are you in Ukraine, Crimea or Russia? Have you witnessed the unrest? What do you think about the region's future? Share your stories with CNN iReport, but please stay safe.
Hillary Clinton is talking tough about Russia these days, for reasons both pragmatic and political.
The overwhelming favorite for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2016, if she decides to run, Clinton already faces GOP criticism for allegedly being soft on Moscow as President Barack Obama's secretary of state until last year.
A recent Republican National Committee statement mocked the "reset" button she offered to Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in 2009 in what was a symbolic effort by the Obama administration to move past Russia's military backing for two breakaway regions in Georgia.
Now Russia's attempted annexation of the Crimean Peninsula from neighboring Ukraine, another former Soviet territory, has again put Washington-Moscow relations in the spotlight.
Using generally stronger and more provocative language than the administration she once represented, Clinton seeks to buff her own foreign policy credentials and those of her party without straying too far from the official government messaging and tactics.
"She has to walk a very fine line," Brown University political scientist Wendy Schiller said of the former first lady and U.S. senator.
The goal is to maintain her credibility as a former secretary of state, and the Democratic Party's credibility on security and defense issues, as the nation heads toward congressional elections in November and the presidential vote two years later, Schiller told CNN.
"She sees it as important not just for her but for the Democratic Party as a whole," Schiller said. Otherwise, "you go from the party that killed Osama bin Laden to the party that can't stop Vladimir Putin."
On Tuesday, Clinton used a speech in Montreal to describe the conflict between Russia and Western allies over Crimea as a "clash of values," adding that Putin would determine if another Cold War ensued.
"I hope there is not another Cold War," Clinton said in response to a question. "Obviously, nobody wants to see that. I think that is primarily up to Putin."
She also called the Crimea situation an effort by Putin to "rewrite the boundaries of post-World War II Europe."
"If he is allowed to get away with that, I think you will see a lot of other countries either directly facing Russian aggression or suborned with their political system so that they are so intimidated that in effect they are transformed into vassals, not sovereign democracies," Clinton warned. "There is a lot at stake here."
She called on the Obama administration to "do a better job of supporting" the interim Ukraine government, and pushed for easing Europe's energy dependence on Russia, saying: "The Russians can only intimidate you if you are dependent on them."
Earlier this month, Clinton compared Putin's actions in Crimea to the tactics of Adolf Hitler in the 1930s, when Germany began taking over neighboring countries. That remark drew media attention and some criticism, with Clinton clarifying her point the next day.
Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry also have criticized Putin, using careful language to insist that Russia's moves in Crimea violated international law and would never gain international acceptance.
Vice President Joe Biden, meanwhile, has played the role of administration attack dog by traveling to Poland, Lithuania and Estonia this week to label the Russian move in Crimea a "land grab" and pledge NATO support for former Soviet satellites now part of the alliance.
Biden has hinted he might run for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2016, and Schiller said Clinton's public posture on the Ukraine crisis takes a possible Biden challenge into consideration.
"On the off chance Joe Biden decides he wants to run, she's taking every opportunity to one-up him on foreign policy credentials," Schiller said. 
At the same time, Clinton wants to avoid launching any kind of "real challenge" to Obama on the issue, she added, saying "you look like a turncoat and it reduces your credibility."
At the White House, spokesman Jay Carney rejected any political calculations in the U.S. response to Putin and Russia when asked about Republican claims the issue could hurt Clinton in 2016.
"That's a superficial way of looking at things," Carney said, adding that "our obligation is to be very clear-eyed about what our national security interests are, what our obligations are to our allies and partners, and to pursue those."
Noting a "temptation to see everything through the lens of the next election cycle," Carney said "that's pretty flaccid thinking."
Vladimir Putin's gala address before Russian parliamentarians and officials Tuesday surprised no one when he announced Russia's annexation of Crimea. The interesting part was his distorted view of Russian history, and his proclamation that a bizarre kind of simultaneously aggrieved and aggressive hyper-nationalism is now Russia's official ideology. 
In discussing Ukraine, however, Putin seemed to go out of his way to suggest he had no aggressive intentions and was not planning to divide the rest of the country. 
Listening to Putin, one could easily forget that Russia is and for many centuries has been the largest country in the world and that it acquired its territories by imperialist expansion often accompanied by genocide and ethnic cleansing. 
Instead, Putin prefers  to see Russia as having been permanently on the defensive, a victim of both Western and Communist machinations: "In a word, we have all the reasons to believe that the notorious policy of containing Russia, which was pursued in the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries, is continuing to this day. 
"They are constantly trying to drive us into some corner, because we have an independent position, because we defend it, and because we call things by their names and are not hypocrites," he said. 
After the Russian Revolution of 1917, according to Putin, it was the turn of the Bolsheviks to aggrieve Russia. Putin conveniently ignores that the vast majority of Bolsheviks were Russian and that the party Lenin founded was institutionally Russian as well. No matter. 
Putin says: "The Bolsheviks, for a number of reasons -- may God judge them -- added large sections of the historical South of Russia to the Republic of Ukraine. This was done with no consideration for the ethnic makeup of the population, and today these areas form the southeast of Ukraine. Then, in 1954, a decision was made to transfer Crimean Region to Ukraine. ... What matters now is that this decision was made in clear violation of the constitutional norms that were in place even then." 
Once again, Putin's historical myopia is breathtaking: Nikita Khrushchev's decision to grant Crimea to Ukraine was as constitutional as anything any Soviet Communist leader did in the entire period of the USSR's existence. The Soviet Union rested on illegality and the systemic violation of human and civil rights. If Khrushchev was wrong, then that's only because the USSR was wrong and should never have been created in the first place.
Unsurprisingly, there is no room in this narrative for the nation that Russian imperialism almost managed to annihilate -- the Crimean Tatars. Russia conquered the Crimean Tatar khanate in 1783. Afterward, the Russian authorities forced the Tatars out of their ancestral homeland and replaced them with settlers from Russia. 
Tens of thousands of Tatars died or were killed; some two-thirds had to leave the Crimea. In 1944, the ethnic cleansing was completed when Stalin expelled the entire Crimean Tatar population -- about 200,000 people -- to Uzbekistan and some other Soviet regions. About half died on the way. It was only in the late 1980s that they began returning to their homeland to find that their land and their homes had been occupied by Russian settlers. 
Instead, Putin primarily explains why Crimea matters to Russia: "The graves of Russian soldiers whose bravery brought Crimea into the Russian empire are also in Crimea. This is also Sevastopol -- a legendary city with an outstanding history, a fortress that serves as the birthplace of Russia's Black Sea Fleet ... symbolizing Russian military glory and outstanding valor."
And what of the Crimean Tatars? Here's Putin: "True, there was a time when Crimean Tatars were treated unfairly, just as a number of other peoples in the USSR. There is only one thing I can say here: Millions of people of various ethnicities suffered during those repressions, and primarily Russians."
The mendacity is astounding. The Crimean Tatars were not just "treated unfairly" by some vague force. They were subjected to genocide by a Russian totalitarian empire. Russians also "suffered," but the brunt of the suffering fell, as Yale historian Timothy Snyder describes in "Bloodlands," on Poles and Ukrainians. 
Despite all this victimization, Putin's speech loudly asserts that Russia is back: It's mad as hell and it won't take being humiliated anymore. This Russia, the new Russia, is both victim and bully: 
"Today it is imperative to end the hysterics and to renounce the rhetoric of the 'Cold War,' and to recognize an obvious thing: Russia is an independent and active participant in international life, and it has, like other countries, its national interests, which must be acknowledged and respected." 
And then, remarkably, Putin adopts a conciliatory tone with respect to Ukraine. Naturally, he first denounces the new democratic government as illegitimate and in the thrall of imaginary fascists and asserts Russia's obligation to help defend Russians and Russian speakers from their supposed assaults and predations. 
"I appeal to the people of Ukraine. I sincerely want you to understand us: Under no conditions do we wish to bring you harm, to insult your national feelings. We have always respected the territorial integrity of the Ukrainian state. ...
"Don't believe those who terrify you with Russia, who shout that other regions will follow Crimea. ... We want Ukraine to be a strong, sovereign and self-sufficient state. ... We want peace and amity to come to the land of Ukraine, and together with other countries we are ready to provide full cooperation and support to that end. But I repeat: Only the citizens of Ukraine are able to bring order to their own home."
If these words were sincere, then they may mark a significant departure from the war-mongering rhetoric Putin employed at his March 4 press conference, where he stated he "wasn't worried" by war with Ukraine. Indeed, if sincere, Putin has clearly stated that he will not invade the rest of Ukraine and attempt to annex some of its southeastern provinces. 
Is Putin being truthful, or is the speech a smoke screen for further aggression? We don't know, of course, but now that Putin has gone on record as having nothing but peaceful intentions toward Ukraine, the international community would do well to remind him of that whenever the temptation to rattle sabers on Ukraine's borders and foment trouble in Ukraine's southeast proves too strong for him to resist. 
When Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region Tuesday and signed a formal decree, he made a major European crisis almost irreversible.
His nation's lawmakers wept and gave him a standing ovation in parliament as he  barraged the West for what he described as its numerous betrayals. But in Western capitals, there was no applause. Governments imposed sanctions on Russian leaders and warned that's just the beginning.
Here's the rationalization for Putin's decision, and the reasoning for the West's derision. 
Former Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev gave Crimea to Ukraine in 1954. At the time, no one thought the Soviet Union would collapse, Putin said.
It did. And Crimea was handed over "like a sack of potatoes," Ukraine's Kyiv Post said. 
Now the people have spoken, and they want to be a part of Russia, Putin said, referring to a hastily-called weekend referendum on separating from Ukraine.
"In our hearts, we know Crimea has always been an inalienable part of Russia," he said.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk called the annexation "a robbery on an international scale," one that his nation will never accept. 
President Barack Obama and other European allies have accused  Moscow of violating Ukraine's sovereignty and independence.
Crimea, which has an ethnic Russian majority, has long been a semiautonomous region within Ukraine. It had its own Parliament, but Ukraine had veto power over its actions.
"One country has come and temporarily stolen part of the territory of an independent country," Yatsenyuk said.
Ukraine's new government, backed by the United States and European powers, prepared "to seize the state through terror and murders," Putin said. What was Russia to do? he asked. 
"The main executors of this were nationalists, Russia-phobes and anti-Semites," he said. "Those people define what is happening today in Ukraine."
International observers said Moscow saw its chance to annex a strategic territory and took it. The region is pretty significant: It still hosts the home port of Russia's Black Sea fleet.
Putin is "mimicking the fascists of the last century" by annexing Crimea, Ukrainian President Oleksandr Turchynov said. 
"His project for his third term as President is to gather in as many of his neighbors as he can to form a new Eurasian Union," said Angela Stent, a professor at the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service. "Ukraine is the key to that project. And Crimea is the key to Ukraine." 
The Russian leader accused the West of "double standards" in its response to the Crimean crisis, citing Kosovo's split from Serbia. In 1999, NATO conducted a two-month bombing campaign to separate Kosovo's Albanian population from the rest of Serbia. The United States supported the breakaway. 
"It's absolutely in favor of their own interests -- black today, white tomorrow," Putin said.
He said anyone who would allow Kosovo to split from Serbia and not Crimea from Ukraine would be showing "absolute cynicism."
The United States said Russia's justifications for taking Crimea amount to an attack on Ukraine's sovereignty. 
"President Putin today gave a speech rewriting history, and it only further put him on the wrong side of history," U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said. 
Preceding the 1999 NATO campaign, ethnic Albanians were being slaughtered. Crimea's ethnic Russians were not facing the same prospect.   
Even though there are Russian troops and vehicles along the border, Putin says there are no plans to take any more territories from  Ukraine.  
Ukraine stands at "the beginning of a very dangerous conflict, and we should do our best to stop this process," said Petro Poroshenko, a former foreign minister and a leading potential candidate for President. 
"Several weeks ago, we had a guarantee that nothing (would) happen with the Crimea," he told CNN's Christian Amanpour.  "Now under attack can be any country in the European Union, including other parts of Ukraine." 
U.S., Australian and EU officials imposed sanctions on more than two dozen Russian and Crimean officials. They include visa bans and frozen assets. 
"President Putin should be in no doubt that Russia will face more serious consequences, and I will push European leaders to agree further EU measures when we meet on Thursday," British Prime Minister David Cameron said. 
U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden said Russia faces more than just sanctions.  "We're talking about Russia putting itself on a path that undermines long-term confidence and creates obstacles for its full participation in the global economy," he said. "That path that they've placed themselves on does nothing to help the next generation of Russians compete and succeed in a world that will be led by the most dynamic and open economies."
But Stent said maintaining warm ties with the United States is not a priority for Putin. Russia's granting of NSA leaker Edward Snowden asylum clearly shows that. 
"Guaranteeing and expanding the Russian presence in Crimea is much more important," she said. 
Vladislav Surkov, a Putin aide named in the sanctions, called it "a great honor" to be singled out for American punishment.
"We wait for sanctions," deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin posted on Twitter. The message included a smiley face and a picture of  a black bear, vodka and a rifle. 
Biographer Alexander Korobko said a country that can produce almost anything has no fear for sanctions. "It is absolutely not in the U.S. interest to impose sanctions on Russia, because who will take American astronauts to space if not us Russians?" Korobko asked.
And the sanctions are a good indicator of how far this battle will go -- or rather not go. 
"The so-called smart sanctions ... in response to events in Crimea were an anti-climax and a confirmation of a total lack of any desire on the part of the West to take the fight with Russia any further," said Alexander Nekrassov, a former Kremlin adviser. 
After a member of its military was killed and more captured when masked gunmen seized their base near the Crimean regional capital, Simferopol, Ukraine's defense ministry authorized its forces to open fire.
It  warned that the crisis was shifting from political to military, and blamed it on Russia. 
"If there were an armed conflict, neither the United States nor NATO would get militarily involved," Stent said. "And the result could be the dismemberment of Ukraine and its division into two states on either side of a new East-West divide." 
Instead, the West should offer Ukraine's interim government financial support and encourage it "not to let itself be provoked into a war with Russia as Georgia was in 2008."
It's not yet evident whether the sanctions will turn Russia into a pariah nation, but the U.S. has issued warnings to Moscow. 
"Russia military intervention in Ukraine will only deepen Russia's diplomatic isolation and exact a greater toll on the Russia economy," President Barack Obama said.
Though condemned by the West, the Russian leader was at the height of his popularity hours after the annexation. Crowds gathered at the capital  to sing and dance. "Vladimir, Vladimir, we love you!" one woman said. "We bow to you." 
Covered this Friday on CNN Student News: A brain drain threatens China, scientists discover a glint of truth behind the "5-second rule" involving food and germs, a hacker uses a drone to expose cell phone insecurities, and technology is used to help victims of South Sudan's civil wars.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback.  
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
How might you go verifying the facts of a study you heard about in the news? 
Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided.
1. What country was hit by a massive earthquake and tsunami three years ago this week?
2. What western European republic celebrated its national holiday on Monday?
4. What city was the scheduled destination of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370?
6. Andromeda, Whirlpool and Sombrero are all examples of what astronomic feature?
8. What kind of vehicle is the U.S. Navy's P-8 Poseidon, which is being used to hunt for the missing Malaysia Airlines passenger plane?
10. What honor, the United States' highest military decoration, was awarded to 24 individuals at the White House this week?  
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them.
We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well.
Russia's lower house of parliament overwhelmingly approved a treaty Thursday to annex the Black Sea peninsula of Crimea from Ukraine, prompting tougher sanctions from the United States.
Russia responded with its own sanctions against a list of U.S. officials and lawmakers.
After Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had presented the treaty and urged lawmakers to accept the region as a part of the Russian Federation, the document was approved on a vote of 443 to 1.
Speaking "on behalf" of Putin, Lavrov had told the State Duma that folding Crimea into Russia was needed to protect ethnic Russians there.
"I am certain that passing the document will become a turning point in the destiny of multi-ethnic nations of Crimea and Russia, who are related with close ties of the historical unity," Lavrov said. 
The political crisis has been the biggest blow to Russia's relations with the West since the Cold War. 
Approval of the treaty in the State Duma was in no doubt as Russia has stood defiant despite Western leaders denouncing Moscow's actions as a violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and a breach of international law.
European Union leaders said Thursday they will sign a political association agreement with Ukraine and add 12 more people to the list of individuals targeted for sanctions, including Russia's Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin. 
EU member states also are threatening possible tougher targeted measures, European Council President Herman Van Rompuy told reporters.
"We make clear that failure to settle the crisis peacefully, and any steps by Russia to destabilize Ukraine, will have far reaching consequences," he said.  "And by that we mean consequences on relations in a broad range of economic areas." 
U.S. and EU officials had already imposed sanctions on more than two dozen Russian and Crimean officials, and urged Russia to avoid escalating the crisis -- a call Moscow has ignored.
But U.S. President Barack Obama on Thursday announced more sanctions on individuals and one bank in response to Russia's annexation moves.
He also signed a new executive order that authorizes possible further sanctions on what he called "key sectors" of the Russian economy if Moscow does not act to deescalate the situation.
"This is not our preferred outcome. These sanctions would not only have a significant impact on the Russian economy, but could also be disruptive to the global economy," he said. "However Russia must know that further escalation will only isolate it further from the international community."
Russia must respect "basic principles" of sovereignty and territorial integrity, he said, adding that the United States should also provide financial support for Ukraine's government and people.
"We want the Ukrainian people to determine their own destiny and have good relations with the United States, Russia, Europe -- anyone they choose," he said, calling for continued diplomatic efforts.
The new U.S. sanctions target 20 officials, including senior Russians and "cronies" who hold significant influence in the Russian system, as well as one bank that holds "significant" resources, a senior U.S. administration official told reporters.
The individuals named by the Treasury include major Putin allies, both in the Kremlin and in business. Among the 16 government officials listed are Putin's chief of staff, Sergei Ivanov; the speaker of the State Duma, Sergey Naryshkin; and Viktor Ozerov, chairman of the Security and Defense Committee of the Russia parliament's upper house.
Four others were named as members of the government's inner circle. They are financier Yuri Kovalchuk, labeled Putin's personal banker by a senior U.S. administration official; magnate Gennady Timchenko, whose activities in the energy sector have been directly linked to Putin, according to the Treasury; and businessmen Arkady and Boris Rotenberg.
Besides Russia's Deputy Prime Minister Rogozin, The expanded EU sanctions target list  includes two advisors to President Putin, Sergey Glazyev and Vladislav Surkov, as well as the chairwoman of the Russian Senate Valentina Matvienko. 
Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt told CNN's Christiane Amanpour that the new round of U.S. sanctions would be "significantly more powerful than the first one."
The latest round "hits significant economic interests that are fairly close to the ruling circles in Moscow. It will be noticed," he said.
Russia responded with sanctions against nine U.S. officials and lawmakers, including speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives John Boehner, Senate Majority leader Harry Reid and Sens. John McCain, Robert Menendez, Daniel Coats and Mary Landrieu, according to a list published by the Russian Foreign Ministry.
Boehner's spokesman, Michael Steel, said the lawmaker was "proud to be included on a list of those willing to stand against Putin's aggression."
McCain responded, "I guess this means my spring break in Siberia is off, my Gazprom stock is lost, and my secret bank account in Moscow is frozen. Nonetheless, I will never cease my efforts on behalf of the freedom, independence, and territorial integrity of Ukraine, including Crimea."
The U.S. Treasury said Bank Rossiya is controlled by Yuri Kovalchuk and is the 17th-largest bank in Russia.
It has $10 billion in assets and handles the accounts of some top government officials, the Treasury said, adding that the bank has relationships with banks in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere. The bank also provides services to the oil, gas and energy sectors, it said.
"As a result of Treasury's action, any assets of the persons designated today that are within U.S. jurisdiction must be frozen," the Treasury said.
British Prime Minister David Cameron told reporters at the EU Heads of State or Government summit there would likely be more asset freezes and travel bans. 
Finland's Minister for European Affairs and Foreign Trade Alexander Stubb told CNN more names would be added Thursday.
"There will probably be over 10 new names on the list and then of course people are going to argue, are these people good to be on the list, bad to be on the list are they to be taken seriously and so on, but there will be more names," Stubb said.
Lavrov told lawmakers that sanctions "have never brought any positive results" and that there were no legal grounds for them.
Russia's defense minister assured U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel in phone call Thursday that Russian troops on the Ukraine border do not intend to cross the border or take aggressive action, Pentagon spokesman Rear Adm. John Kirby said.
Hagel made it clear in the lengthy and sometimes "direct" talk with Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu that the Russians bear responsibility for what happens in Crimea, including the recent violence, since they are in control there, Kirby said.
While Russia insists its actions are legitimate, Ukraine's parliament said Thursday that Kiev will never stop fighting for Crimea, even if the country's new leaders have discussed evacuating military personnel from the region.
In a declaration published online, the Kiev parliament said "Crimea was, is and will be part of Ukraine."
"The Ukrainian people will never, under no circumstances, stop fighting for the liberation of Crimea from the occupants, no matter how hard and long it is."
Putin announced the annexation of Crimea after voters in the semi-autonomous territory approved a hastily called weekend referendum on separating from Ukraine.
Kiev officials unveiled new measures against Russia and the "self-proclaimed" authorities in Crimea.
In a televised briefing, Andriy Porubiy, secretary of the national defense and security council, said that if the United Nations designates Crimea a "demilitarized zone," Ukraine is prepared to evacuate its military personnel and family members. Ukraine has facilities ready to accommodate 25,000 evacuees.
A statement on the Ukrainian presidential website said former Presidents Leonid Kravchuk and Leonid Kuchma had asked Turchynov to redeploy soldiers who are still in Crimea to the mainland.
The call was "to protect and save lives of Ukrainian servicemen who bear service in difficult and dangerous conditions in Crimea," the statement said.
Porubiy had also said the measures included a full-scale visa system for Russians.
Speaking in Brussels on Thursday, Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk said Kiev was in no hurry to impose a visa regime on Russia, since it could negatively affect Ukrainians living in the predominantly Russian-speaking east of the country.
Yatsenyuk is in Brussels to sign the political part of an association agreement with the European Union.
Lavrov said the intention to introduce visa regulations was "surprising and regrettable."
As diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis continue, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon traveled to Russia Thursday, where he met Putin and Lavrov. He will then head to Kiev where he will meet acting Ukrainian President Oleksandr Turchynov and Yatsenyuk on Friday.
Russia's Interfax news agency quoted Ban as saying during a meeting with Putin that he was "deeply concerned" by the situation involving Ukraine and Russia.
Ukraine's navy commander, detained when supporters of Russia took over the naval headquarters in Crimea, was released, the presidential website said Thursday.
Amid signs the uneasy standoff between pro-Russian and Ukrainian forces could ignite into bloody conflict, about 300 armed men stormed the naval base in Sevastopol on Wednesday. They took away Ukrainian navy chief Sergey Gaiduk.  
Turchynov issued a 9 p.m. (3 p.m. ET) deadline for Crimea to release all hostages and stop all provocations. Kiev's new leaders had warned that if all hostages, including Gaiduk, were not released by then, authorities would take action of "technical and technological character," probably meaning turning off utilities.
A statement on the presidential site said Gaiduk and several other hostages had been freed. They were released during the night and were on their way to Kiev Thursday.
Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu had asked authorities in Crimea to free Gaiduk and allow him safe passage out of the region.  
The incident at the navy headquarters came a day after one member of the Ukrainian military was killed when masked gunmen seized their base near the Crimean regional capital, Simferopol.
After that fatality -- the first Ukrainian military death since the Crimean crisis erupted about three weeks ago -- Ukraine's Defense Ministry authorized its forces to open fire in self-defense. 
Editors' Note: This article has been edited to remove plagiarized content after CNN discovered multiple instances of plagiarism by Marie-Louise Gumuchian, a former CNN news editor.
It's official, Crimea is Russian. In the words of Vladimir Putin, "In people's hearts and minds, Crimea has always been an inseparable part of Russia." Indeed Russia said that in Sunday's referendum 97% of its participants, mostly ethnic Russians, insisted that to belong to the Great Russia versus Small Russia (Malorossiya, another name for Ukraine) had been their dream for 60 years since the Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev, my great-grandfather, transferred the peninsula's jurisdiction to Kiev. 
In his address to Parliament on March 18 announcing the annexation, Putin said that by this Khrushchev action Russia was not "simply robbed, it was plundered." There are many reasons for transfer that Putin could have outlined: administrative, economic, desire to overcome Joseph Stalin's legacy of central control. Yet he chose to say my great-grandfather was atoning for "the mass repressions of the 1930s in Ukraine." 
Well, Khrushchev became the First Secretary of the Ukrainian Communist Party in 1938, when most of the repressions -- namely Holodomor, the Great Famine, brought in part by Stalin's heavy industrialization -- were over. It is rich of the Russian President to accuse Khrushchev of repressions. What about Stalin, the true tyrant? Putin is not Stalin, of course, not yet, but he sees himself walking in the dictator's shoes: he adds lands to the great Russia, while other sorry leaders like Khrushchev only squandered it away.
Not that Khrushchev, a Soviet autocrat, shied away from brutality, indeed participating in repressions and purges -- that was the style of the times. Nonetheless, after Stalin's death in 1953 his goal was to decentralize the Communist monolith, hence the Crimea transfer. No stranger to propaganda -- Communism excelled in arguing Soviet superiority over ethnic national pride, Ukrainian or any other, as well as over decadent and dying capitalism -- Khrushchev still would have cringed at Putin's distortions. 
"Kiev is the mother of Russian cities. Ancient Rus is our common source and we cannot live without each other," the president said, implying that given this closeness Russia must have control over the Malorossian territory. Khrushchev too thought that Ukraine and Russia were almost one -- after all a symbolic reason for the 1954 transfer was the 300th anniversary of the Ukrainian-Russian unification. But he would think of them as equal nations, assigning the original primacy to the 9th century Kiev, not to Moscow, which until the 1100s was just an obscure place in the woods. 
Khrushchev, who valued diversity (as much as the Soviet despot could) would have condemned the Putin Doctrine -- development of the military industrial complex based on the Kremlin-centric heavy industry and export of raw materials. In Soviet times that complex was a staple of the economy, as the main slogan of the Kremlin was the class struggle against global imperialism. And even if my great-grandfather used that argument in Budapest, sending tanks to suppress the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, a popular uprising against hardline communism, he lamented similar tactics in 1968 when his successor Leonid Brezhnev squashed the Prague Spring. 
Under Brezhnev this kind of incursions into neighboring territories became known as the Brezhnev Doctrine. It declared that forces hostile to socialism should not be tolerated, and to cement this argument in 1979 the USSR send troops to Afghanistan to provide security to its recently formed Democratic Republic. Khrushchev died in 1971 and didn't see what harm the Afghan war did to his country -- thousands of lives lost and the economy strained by the time it withdrew with defeat exactly a quarter of a century ago -- but he, who in retirement spoke candidly of his and Communism's mistakes, would have been horrified by the stanchness of the Kremlin's patterns.
Today Putin would undoubtedly suggest that Crimea is not different from Afghanistan. Speaking to the veterans about the Afghan invasion in February 2004, he explained there were legitimate geopolitical reasons to protect the Soviet Central Asian border. Now citing security of nations within Moscow's sphere of influence he has justified the Ukraine territorial takeover. 
What's more, in the Brezhnev era the expansionist policies of the military industrial complex were a result of the oil prosperity. After the 1973 oil crisis its prices reached 41 dollars a barrel by 1981. They provided some material comforts to the Soviets, fueled their belief in the USSR's stability and strength. Similarly, with oil at around $100 a barrel in recent decades, the GDP growth under Putin -- up 8% until just a few years ago -- allowed Russians to live well like never before, also cultivating a sense of superiority. The success of the Sochi Olympics last month has only made it greater. 
In fact the Crimeans' desire to join Russia is partially based on their trust that Putin will turn them into another Sochi, with posh hotels and pristine beaches. But the cost of upgrading or rebuilding the peninsula's economic and social infrastructure will range from $10 billion (300 billion rubles) to $85 billion (3 trillion rubles). Can Russia really foot that bill?
A bitter lesson from the Brezhnev USSR is that the state, driven by an undiversified and oil-based economy, runs out of funds to support its extra territories because nationalistic emotions take over economic calculations. Russian inflexible financial system was suffering even before the Ukrainian crisis began. Last year's forecasts suggest that in the next 15 years Russia's growth rate would fall from 4.3% to 2.5% if it keeps its raw material focus.
Now with the United States, Europe and Japan hitting the Kremlin with sanctions -- account freezes and visa bans for the high level Putin government officials -- further economic downturn is inevitable. 
The Brezhnev Doctrine -- defense of socialism through expansion and the military industrial complex -- had led to the inglorious Soviet collapse. The doomsday of the Putin Doctrine must be approaching fast.
Is Russian President Vladimir Putin an opportunist, grabbing at chances to poke the West in the eye, or a clever strategist with the longer-term goal of restoring a greater Russia? Is he simply riding a tide of Russian patriotic fervor over Crimea? Is he a rational actor aware of the delicate balances within the international system, or as one observer put it, "drunk on power" and oblivious to sanctions? 
These are the questions preoccupying western governments and Russia's neighbors, after the swift annexation of Crimea and Russian military maneuvers close to the Ukrainian border. 
There were some tantalizing clues in Putin's pugnacious speech to the Duma this week. He described the fall of the Soviet Union as unfortunate -- because it had separated Russians. "The Russian nation became one of the biggest, if not the biggest ethnic group in the world to be divided by borders," he said.
"It was only when Crimea ended up as part of a different country that Russia realized that it was not simply robbed, it was plundered." He went on to say, "if you compress the spring all the way to its limit, it will snap back hard." 
Heady, populist rhetoric -- but it has propelled the Russian President to his highest approval rating -- 71% -- in recent years, according to the Russian Public Opinion Research Center. 
Putin said Russia had no intention of violating Ukraine's sovereignty (beyond the 5% of its territory it has absorbed this week.) "Do not believe those who want you to fear Russia, shouting that other regions will follow Crimea," he told Ukrainians. 
But he then said this: "It should be above all in Ukraine's own interest to ensure that these people's rights and interests are fully protected. This is the guarantee of Ukraine's state stability and territorial integrity." 
In other words, if the Kremlin believes Russians are being discriminated against, Ukraine's independence is no longer assured.
Those words will have echoed across parts of the former Soviet Union with large Russian populations: Moldova (10%), Lithuania (6%), Latvia (27%) and Estonia (25%). Will the Russian region of Transnistria in Moldova begin agitating for its own referendum? Will oblasts (regions) of eastern Ukraine demand their own vote?
Transnistria is already beyond the control of the Moldovan government. Just as a statue of Lenin overlooks the main square in the Crimean capital, Simferopol, so another stands outside Transnistria's regional assembly in Tiraspol. In a 2006 referendum more than 95% of voters said they wanted to be reunited with Russia. 
The assumption at NATO headquarters is that Putin won't stop at Crimea. Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen described the annexation of Crimea as "21st century revisionism, attempts to turn back the clock, to draw new dividing lines on our map, to monopolize markets, subdue populations."
NATO has already stepped up air policing over the Baltic states -- all members of the Alliance.
Nor does the White House see Crimea as Putin's end-game. In imposing sanctions against figures close to Putin, President Obama stressed Thursday that further Russian incursions would trigger a third round of sanctions targeting key sectors of the Russian economy. 
One of Putin's reasons for ignoring the warnings so far is history, as he made clear in front of the Duma. On Kosovo, NATO expansion, Libya and other issues, he said, the West had lied to and deceived Russia. He didn't use the word payback, but he didn't need to. 
Gradually, pro-Western governments have taken power around Russia, across the Baltics, now in Ukraine -- feeding the age-old Russian fear of encirlement. Indeed Putin asked the Duma this week: what if Sevastopol in Crimea -- with its glorious place in Russian military history -- had become a NATO base within Ukraine? A line had to be drawn. 
But that line has only hastened the signing of Ukraine's association agreement with the European Union. In signing the agreement Friday, the President of the European Council, Herman van Rompuy, pointedly said it was a response to "the popular yearning for a decent life as a nation, for a European way of life." The subtext was that Putin's Russia was on the wrong side of history -- anti-democratic, corrupt, without values.
Another reason for Putin's embrace of high-octane nationalism, according to some analysts, is that he increasingly relies on a small inner circle, where there are few voices of caution or dissent. There was a sign of this when Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov met US Secretary of State John Kerry in London recently. U.S. officials were surprised that Lavrov -- despite his enormous experience -- had no mandate to negotiate or even discuss aspects of the crisis. Lavrov announced Friday that the President would personally supervize the reintegration of Crimea.
Alexei Kudrin was known to speak his mind as Finance Minister from 2000-2011. He believes the consequences of sanctions and market anxiety may cost Russia $200 billion this year in capital flight. The ruble has already lost 10% of its value this year and the credit rating agency Fitch's said Friday that "Since U.S. and EU banks and investors may well be reluctant to lend to Russia under the current circumstances, the economy may slow further and the private sector may require official support." Economists now expect the Russian economy to stagnate and perhaps slide into recession. 
That hurts people closest to the Russian President, the billionaires who control large chunks of the Russian economy. Major companies like Metalloinvest and state banks like VTB need access to capital markets. Will Putin feel their pain, or must the oligarchs also make patriotic sacrifices?
Another unknown is whether the Kremlin feels the West has the stomach for serious, lasting sanctions. After the Russian incursion into Georgia in 2008, when South Ossetia was essentially annexed, there was brief and mild retribution. The list of individuals sanctioned by the U.S. and European Union this time round may make a greater impact. But the avenues for dialogue - through NATO, the European Union, the G8, the United Nations -- are closing down. 
Perhaps the biggest question is whether Putin accepts that Russia in the 21st century must be fully integrated into the international economy -- as a member of the World Trade Organization, with a convertible currency and a rule of law that allows and encourages companies to do business there. Or does he believe Russia is strong enough to stand aloof in the knowledge that the world (and especially Europe) can't do without its oil, gas and minerals? Similarly, does he see the value of international co-operation on Iran's nuclear program or Syria? Russia has no desire to see a nuclear-armed Iran, nor Syria taken over by jihadist militants. But co-operation with the West does not follow.
Despite the fact that his "cashiers" are now sanctioned, and his attempts to prevent Ukraine from drifting westward have backfired, Putin's muscular defiance -- so popular at home and in Crimea -- portrays the West as Russia's natural adversary, not its potential partner.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk signed the political elements of a trade pact with the European Union on Friday, even as Russian lawmakers finalized annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region.
The signing in Brussels signals Europe's solidarity with Ukraine -- and carries additional symbolic force because it was the decision by Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych in November to ditch the trade pact in favor of closer ties with Russia that triggered the protests that led to his ouster in February and spiraled into the current crisis.
It also comes a day after the European Union and the United States slapped sanctions on Russian lawmakers and businessmen; Russia responded with its own list of sanctions against a number of U.S. lawmakers and officials.
In another sign of defiance, Russian President Vladimir Putin, flanked by the speakers of both houses of Parliament, signed a treaty Friday finalizing the accession to Russia of the Crimea region and its port city of Sevastopol.
The upper house unanimously approved ratification of the treaty a day after Russia's lower house of Parliament, the State Duma, passed it by an overwhelming margin.
The political crisis has been the biggest blow to Russia's relations with the West since the Cold War. 
In a sign that Western sanctions are already weighing on Russian authorities, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said Friday in Moscow that the government will have to pay more to borrow money, state news agency ITAR-Tass said.
Russia "will look at our oil and gas revenues. If the situation is like it is now, we will probably have to give up external borrowings and cut domestic ones," Siluanov said. 
Moscow has doggedly pursued its own course even as Western leaders have denounced its actions as violations of Ukraine's sovereignty and a breach of international law.
Though Russia insists that its actions are legitimate, Ukraine's interim government has said Kiev will never stop fighting for Crimea.
Human Rights Watch said in a statement Friday that it has concluded that the international law of occupation applies to Russian forces in Crimea. "The occupying party is ultimately responsible for violations of international law committed by local authorities or proxy forces," it said.
While in Brussels, Yatsenyuk held talks with European Council President Herman Van Rompuy and European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso.
He said Russia's ratification of the treaty annexing Crimea is less important than the EU trade pact he has signed with EU leaders.
"Frankly speaking, I don't care about Russia signing this deal; I care about Ukraine, Ukrainians and our European future," he said. "This deal covers more existential and most important issues, mainly security and defense cooperation."
Yatsenyuk said the European Union would "speak in one single and strong voice" to protect its values and defend Ukraine's territorial integrity.
Van Rompuy said the deal "shows our steadfast support for the course the people of Ukraine have courageously pursued."
The European Union confirmed details of the sanctions against 12 Russian officials agreed to late Thursday at the EU Heads of State or Government summit.
Those targeted with travel bans and asset freezes include Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin, as well as the chairwoman of the Russian upper house, Valentina Matvienko, and two Putin advisers.
"Sanctions are not a question of retaliation; they are a foreign policy tool," Van Rompuy said. "Our goal is to stop Russian action against Ukraine, to restore Ukraine's sovereignty, and to achieve this, we need a negotiated solution."
He said the European Union expected soon to finalize approval of the remaining parts of the deal, particularly its economic provisions.
British Prime Minister David Cameron said the European Commission will draw up further sanctions -- in finance, military and energy -- for use if the situation escalates.
"Europe is, I think, 25% or so reliant on Russian gas," he said. "But if you look at Gazprom's revenues, something like 50% of them come from Europe. So, you know, Russia needs Europe more than Europe needs Russia."
Cameron said the measures agreed to in Brussels will carry a cost for Crimea, whose goods would face heavy penalties and tariffs in Europe if they are shipped through Russia, not Ukraine.
EU leaders want to see an international observer mission in Crimea, preferably under the aegis of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe but, if not, sent by the European Union, Cameron said.
A day after speaking with Putin in Moscow, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon met Friday in Kiev with acting President Oleksandr Turchynov, then told reporters he was "very deeply concerned" by the tensions in parts of Ukraine and between Kiev and Moscow. "These are some of the most traumatic and difficult times in the history of Ukraine," he said.
Ban urged a peaceful, diplomatic resolution to the crisis and said all parties should refrain from inflammatory actions and rhetoric.
U.N. Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights Ivan Simonovic arrived Friday in Crimea for a two-day visit aimed at laying the groundwork for a U.N. human rights monitoring mission, the United Nations said.
He and a team were to meet with Crimean leaders, the head of the Crimean Tatar minority and others, including the families of Ukrainian servicemen, the United Nations said.
The United Nations and other organizations stand ready to assist with the country's elections, slated to be held May 25, Ban said. While in Kiev, he was also planning to meet with Yatsenyuk and other ministers and lawmakers.
In another sign of solidarity with Ukraine, France is offering to strengthen a NATO air-policing mission in the Baltic area by sending four jets, a Defense Ministry spokesman said Friday.
The offer, accepted by the Baltic states, was extended Friday as French Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian traveled to Lithuania, Estonia and Poland, said Sacha Mandel, the minister's communication adviser. 
His trip followed a visit to the Baltics this week by Vice President Joe Biden.
The U.S. sanctions announced Thursday target 20 people seen as close to Putin, as well as a bank, Rossiya, believed to serve the President and senior Russian officials.
Putin rejected the putative link. "I personally didn't have an account there, but I'll definitely open it on Monday," he said Friday, according to the Kremlin.
The individuals named by the U.S. Treasury include Putin allies in the Kremlin and in business. Among the 16 government officials are Putin's chief of staff, Sergei Ivanov; the speaker of the State Duma, Sergey Naryshkin; and Viktor Ozerov, chairman of the Security and Defense Committee of the Russian Parliament's upper house.
Four others were named as members of the government's inner circle. They are financier Yuri Kovalchuk, labeled Putin's personal banker by a senior U.S. administration official; magnate Gennady Timchenko, whose activities in the energy sector have been directly linked to Putin, according to the Treasury; and businessmen Arkady and Boris Rotenberg.
In Washington, the House Foreign Affairs Committee introduced a bill Friday that provides aid to Ukraine. 
"The United States must stand with the people of Ukraine in the wake of Russia's attack on and occupation of Crimea," said ranking member Eliot Engel, D-New York, in a statement. "It sends a clear message to President Putin and his corrupt cronies that we will not tolerate Russian aggression."
The House had passed a loan-guarantee bill and a non-binding resolution calling for sanctions, but Friday's legislation proposes statutory language to put those sanctions into law.
President Barack Obama is to meet next week with other leaders of the so-called G7 group of industrialized nations, on the sidelines of a nuclear summit in the Netherlands. Russia has been excluded from the talks.
Obama signed an executive order that authorizes further sanctions on key sectors of the Russian economy if Moscow does not act to deescalate the situation.
Washington had already announced sanctions Monday on 11 individuals; the European Union had imposed travel bans and asset freezes on 21 people. 
Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt told CNN's Christiane Amanpour that the new round of U.S. sanctions would be "significantly more powerful than the first one."
The latest round "hits significant economic interests that are fairly close to the ruling circles in Moscow," he said. "It will be noticed."
Markets were down Friday in Moscow, amid uncertainty in the business community. 
The Moscow Interbank Curency Exchange, or MICEX index, fell more than 2% -- bringing its 2014 losses to 14%. The ruble rebounded after falling early in the day; it has lost about 10% since the start of the year. 
In contrast, the markets and ruble had risen Monday, when the first round of sanctions was announced and did not appear to target those in Putin's inner circle.
The business community now appears to fear that Putin is on a collision course with the West, and that that could undermine its interests.
Russia's Foreign Ministry said Friday that it had asked Putin to draft countermeasures in response to the expanded Western sanctions.
On Thursday, Moscow imposed measures against nine U.S. officials and lawmakers, including House Speaker John Boehner, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Sens. John McCain, Robert Menendez, Daniel Coats and Mary Landrieu, according to the Russian Foreign Ministry.
Editors' Note: This article has been edited to remove plagiarized content after CNN discovered multiple instances of plagiarism by Marie-Louise Gumuchian, a former CNN news editor.
Six Russian special forces' armored personnel carriers broke through the gates of Belbek Airbase, firing warning shots into the air, a spokesman for Ukraine's Ministry of Defense in Crimea, Vladislav Seleznev, told CNN.
In a separate incident, pro-Russian self-defense forces stormed the Novofederoskoe military base, also in Crimea, taking control of it, a Ukraine defense ministry spokesman said Saturday.
Ukrainian forces on the base threw smoke bombs during the incident and retreated to the base's headquarters, according to Seleznev, in a Facebook posting.
The base's aviation brigade then sang the Ukrainian national anthem, lowered the Ukrainian flag and left the base, he said.
The White House reacted by urging Russia to open talks with the Ukrainian government.
"As we have said, the Russian military is directly responsible for any casualties that its forces -- whether they be regular uniformed troops or irregulars without insignias -- inflict on Ukrainian military members," said Laura Lucas Magnuson, a spokeswoman for the National Security Council, in a statement.
The reports "highlight the dangerous situation created by Russia and belie President (Vladimir) Putin's claim that Russia's military intervention in Crimea has brought security to that part of Ukraine."
The incidents occurred as international observers were set to arrive in Ukraine to monitor the security and human rights situation in a posting expected to last at least six months.
But they will not enter the contested region of Crimea, a statement from the Russian Foreign Ministry said, because this "became part of Russia."
Moscow annexed the territory this week following a controversial snap referendum there that produced an overwhelming majority of votes in favor of leaving Ukraine to join Russia.
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe will eventually deploy a total of 100 observers throughout Ukraine in hopes of "reducing tensions and fostering peace, stability and security." They will also check that the rights of ethnic minorities are being protected.
The regional security organization may widen the mission to include 400 more monitors, and extend it for a second six-month period if requested by the Kiev government.
Russia, which is one of the OSCE's 57 member states, approved the mission, according to state-run Russian news agency, RIA Novosti. 
Russia's Foreign Ministry said it hoped the observers' work would "help to overcome the internal Ukrainian crisis, stop rampant nationalist banditry, eradicate ultra-radical tendencies, help achieve national reconciliation and social respect, political, linguistic, educational, cultural and religious rights of the people in all regions of Ukraine."
Russia has previously said it reserves the right to enter Ukrainian territory to protect ethnic Russians from what it says is a threat from ultra-nationalists and fascists.
Meanwhile, European leaders have demanded that independent monitors be granted access to the Crimean peninsula, which Russia now calls its own territory.
OSCE monitors made multiple attempts to enter Crimea during the height of the crisis when pro-Russian militias took control of the region. But armed men at the borders turned them back.
Ukraine, the United States and other Western powers maintain that the Black Sea peninsula is still a part of Ukraine.
"We must not allow a new division of Europe," German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said Saturday in Kiev, where he met with with Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenyuk and acting President Oleksandr Turchinov.
Yatsenyuk also met Saturday with U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who then reiterated that any solution must be a diplomatic one and called for direct talks between Kiev and Moscow, the U.N. spokesperson said in a statement.
Yatsenyuk signed the political elements of a trade pact with the European Union on Friday as Russian lawmakers finalized annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region.
The signing in Brussels signaled Europe's solidarity with Ukraine and carries additional symbolic force. It was the decision by Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych in November to ditch the trade pact in favor of closer ties with Russia that triggered the protests that led to his ouster in February and spiraled into the current crisis.
On Saturday, Ukraine's Chief Prosecutor Oleg Mohnitsky, Deputy Prosecutor Alexei Baganets and Interior Minister Arsen Avakov told reporters that raids carried out Friday on apartments and offices linked to two of Yanukovych's cabinet members had turned up signs of corruption -- millions of dollars in cash, gold and jewels.
Putin, flanked by the speakers of both houses of Russia's Parliament, signed a treaty Friday finalizing the accession to Russia of the Crimea region and its port city of Sevastopol.
Russia's Black Sea Fleet is based in Sevastopol, making it strategically important to Moscow. The region also has a majority ethnic Russian population and long historical ties to Russia.
Although Russia insists that its actions are legitimate, Ukraine's interim government has said Kiev will never stop fighting for Crimea.
The Ukrainian naval fleet's sole submarine has been taken over by the Russians, a spokesman for Ukraine's Defense Ministry said Saturday.
The Zaporizhia was taken over and placed under the flag of the Russian naval fleet when its commander abandoned it after deciding not to join with Russian forces, Seleznev, the Ukraine defense spokesman, told CNN.
The Soviet-era diesel-electric submarine is more than 40 years old, but was upgraded by Russian engineers a couple of years ago, according to the state-run news agency Ria Novosti.
Seleznev later said on his Facebook page -- citing sources in Sevastopol -- that Crimean self-defense forces and Russian special forces had taken another Ukrainian ship, the Slavutych.
The ship was captured "after a two-hour assault," Seleznev said, though the Ukrainian ship's crew members came ashore and didn't suffer any injuries.
Moscow has doggedly pursued its own course even as Western leaders have denounced its actions as violations of Ukraine's sovereignty and a breach of international law.
U.S. President Barack Obama plans to meet with leaders of the G7 group of industrialized nations next week to discuss Ukraine.  
Russia has been excluded from the talks on the sidelines of a nuclear summit in the Netherlands. 
A planned EU-Russia summit has also been canceled, as the West seeks to increase Moscow's isolation over its actions in Ukraine.
And a spokesman for the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, said Friday he had canceled a planned high-level trade visit to Moscow in October.
That step followed a new round of sanctions imposed by EU leaders Thursday against 12 individuals. Those sanctions brought to 33 the total number of people facing EU asset freezes and travel bans.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Aleksandr Lukashevich dismissed the latest move by EU leaders in a statement posted to the Foreign Ministry website Saturday.
"It is a pity that the European Council adopted a decision which is divorced from reality," he said. "Russia reserves the right to give an adequate response to the undertaken action." 
The United States announced its own new round of sanctions on Thursday against 20 individuals and a bank which U.S. officials say is linked to Putin and senior Russian officials. Washington had already announced sanctions on 11 individuals.
Further sanctions which would target Russia's economic interests are threatened by both the European Union and the United States if Moscow does not act to deescalate the situation. 
The United States is keeping a close eye on the large-scale drills Russia's military are conducting near Ukraine's eastern border with the country.
National Security Adviser Susan Rice said Friday it's "not clear" what is signaled by Russia massing its forces near the border -- and suggested Washington is wary.
"The Russians have stated that they are intending military exercises," she said. "Obviously, given their past practice and the gap between what they have said and what they have done, we are watching it with skepticism."
Rice also praised the Ukrainian people and government for their "enormous restraint in the face of obvious provocation."
She added, "They've made clear that their interest is in a unified, democratic future that is ... in an existence at peace with both Russia and with western Europe and the United States."
It cautioned U.S. citizens "to defer all non-essential travel to Ukraine and to defer all travel to the Crimean Peninsula and eastern regions of Kharkiv, Donetsk and Lugansk due to the presence of Russian military forces in the Crimean Peninsula."
While the transition to a new government has been largely peaceful, some clashes have broken out in eastern regions, the State Department said, and "groups advocating closer ties to Russia have taken on a more strident anti-American tone, especially in Crimea."
NATO's top military commander expressed concern Sunday about the buildup of Russian forces on Ukraine's border, as Moscow's forces consolidated their control of Crimea over the weekend.
Supreme Allied Commander Europe Gen. Philip Breedlove said Russia had a large force on Ukraine's eastern border and that he was worried it could pose a threat to Moldova's separatist Trans-Dniester region.
"The (Russian) force that is at the Ukrainian border now to the east is very, very sizable and very, very ready," Breedlove, a U.S. Air Force general, said.
"There is absolutely sufficient force postured on the eastern border of Ukraine to run to Trans-Dniester if the decision was made to do that, and that is very worrisome."
Russia said its forces complied with international agreements.  Moscow annexed Crimea following a controversial snap referendum in the autonomous region last week that produced an overwhelming majority of votes in favor of leaving Ukraine to join Russia.
"Russia is acting much more like an adversary than a partner," Breedlove said, speaking at an event held in Brussels, Belgium, by the German Marshall Fund think tank.
"It's deeply concerning to see the Russian troop buildup along the border. It creates the potential for incidents, for instability," Tony Blinken, White House deputy national security adviser, told CNN's "State of the Union." 
"It's likely that what they are trying to do is intimidate the Ukrainians. It's possible that they are preparing to move in."
Pro-Russia demonstrations were planned for Sunday in Ukrainian cities outside Crimea, a Black Sea peninsula. The shows of favor for Moscow were scheduled for cities in Ukraine's south and east, where there are many ethnic Russians.
On Saturday, six Russian special forces armored personnel carriers broke through the gates of Belbek air base, firing warning shots into the air, a spokesman for Ukraine's Ministry of Defense in Crimea told CNN. One journalist was injured in the attack, said Vladislav Seleznev. 
In a separate incident, pro-Russian self-defense forces stormed the Novofederoskoe military base, also in Crimea, taking control of it, a Ukraine Defense Ministry spokesman said.
Seleznev also said that Crimean self-defense forces and Russian special forces took a Ukrainian ship, the Slavutych.
The ship was captured "after a two-hour assault," he said, though the Ukrainian ship's crew members came ashore and didn't suffer any injuries.
Ukrainian forces on the Novofederoskoe base threw smoke bombs during the incident and retreated to the base's headquarters, Seleznev said in a Facebook posting.
The base's aviation brigade then sang the Ukrainian national anthem, lowered the Ukrainian flag and left the base, he said.
The White House urged Russia to open talks with the Ukrainian government. But in a statement, it also held the Russian military directly responsible for any casualties inflicted on Ukrainian military members -- whether from regular Russian troops or militias not wearing insignias.
The incidents occurred as international observers were set to arrive in Ukraine to monitor the security and human rights situation, in a posting expected to last at least six months.
But they will not enter the contested region of Crimea, a statement from the Russian Foreign Ministry said, because this "became part of Russia."
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe will eventually deploy a total of 100 observers throughout Ukraine in hopes of "reducing tensions and fostering peace, stability and security." They will also check that the rights of ethnic minorities are being protected.
The OSCE may widen the mission to include 400 more monitors, and extend it for a second six-month period if requested by the Kiev government.
Russia, which is one of the OSCE's 57 member states, approved the mission, according to state-run Russian news agency RIA Novosti.
Russia's Foreign Ministry said it hoped the observers' work would stop nationalist extremists, who Moscow says have a strong influence on Kiev's government, and protect linguistic rights. Many Ukrainians speak Russian as their native language.
Russia has previously said it reserves the right to enter Ukrainian territory to protect ethnic Russians from what it says is a threat from ultranationalists and fascists.
Meanwhile, European leaders have demanded that independent monitors be granted access to the Crimean Peninsula.
OSCE monitors made multiple attempts to enter Crimea during the height of the crisis, when pro-Russian militias took control of the region. But armed men at the borders turned them back.
Ukraine, the United States and other Western powers maintain Crimea is still a part of Ukraine.
"We must not allow a new division of Europe," German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said Saturday in Kiev, where he met with with Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk and acting President Oleksandr Turchynov.
Russia insists its actions are legitimate. Crimea had belonged to Russia until 1954, when it was given to Ukraine.
The region also has a majority ethnic Russian population and other long historic ties to Russia.
Russia's Black Sea Fleet is based in the Crimean city of Sevastopol, making it strategically important to Moscow. 
Moscow has doggedly pursued its own course, even as Western leaders have denounced its actions as violations of Ukraine's sovereignty and a breach of international law.
U.S. President Barack Obama plans to meet with leaders of the G7 group of industrialized nations this week to discuss Ukraine. 
Russia has been excluded from the talks on the sidelines of a nuclear summit in the Netherlands. 
A planned EU-Russia summit has also been canceled, as the West seeks to increase Moscow's isolation over its actions in Ukraine.
EU leaders imposed a new round of sanctions against 12 individuals last week, bringing the total number of people facing EU asset freezes and travel bans to 33.
The United States announced its own new round of sanctions against 20 individuals and a bank which U.S. officials say is linked to Putin and senior Russian officials. Washington had already announced sanctions on 11 individuals.
"What we've seen the President do in recent weeks, and what we'll see him do this week, is bring the world together in support of Ukraine, to isolate Russia for its actions ... and reassure our partners and allies in NATO and Europe," Blinken said.
You've probably heard that the Turkish government's attempt to ban Twitter quickly collapsed into farce.
"More than 2.5 million tweets -- or over 17,000 per minute -- were reportedly posted (from Turkey) in the first 24 hours after the ban, according to several media reports.
HootSuite, a Vancouver, Canada-based startup that measures and analyzes Twitter marketing campaigns, said in a corporate blog post that its traffic from Turkey tripled in the first day after the ban.
Turkey is a NATO ally, a candidate for membership in the European Union, a front-line state facing Iran, Syria and Russia -- and it is heading seriously in the wrong direction. A lot of people have invested a lot of time and effort denying that unwelcome news. It can be denied no longer.
Turkey's Twitter-banning prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, came to power after a big election win in 2002. Erdogan's party was staunchly Islamic, yet seemingly committed to electoral democracy. Its victory was hailed by many as a hopeful sign for the post-9/11 world. 
Europe had Christian Democratic parties; why couldn't Turkey have a Muslim Democratic party? Indeed, Erdogan-style Muslim Democracy seemed a decade ago the striking alternative to radical Islamism, a political alternative that would integrate religion into politics while preserving individual freedom and democratic decision-making.
Erdogan and his Islamic regime lifted restrictions on the wearing of hijab in public buildings. He abolished the daily pledge of allegiance to a secular Turkey required in all Turkish schools since 1933. He downgraded the longstanding Turkish relationship with Israel and mused instead about a "neo-Ottoman" role for Turkey at the head of the Middle East's Muslim nations. He and his party passed restrictions on the sale and promotion of alcohol and boldly disavowed the equality of the sexes. 
At the same time, the Erdogan government did initiate important economic liberation of Turkey's traditionally state-led economy. He made concessions to ethnic and religious minorities. It seemed imaginable that Erdogan's reactionary religious message could somehow be fused with modern economics and tolerance. President Barack Obama certainly imagined so: In a 2012 interview with CNN's Fareed Zakaria, the President cited Prime Minister Erdogan as one of the five foreign leaders with whom he'd forged his closest "bonds of trust".
Yet from the start, Erdogan's Islamic democracy had a strongly authoritarian whiff to it. Through the Erdogan years, Turkey has led the world in the number of journalists jailed, ahead of both China and Iran. Erdogan's government banned YouTube for two years beginning in 2007, purged and jailed hundreds of politically uncongenial military officers and reshaped both police and the judiciary. 
Turkish voters overlooked and forgave these infringements. They elected and twice re-elected Erdogan. Turkey achieved genuine economic progress during his rule. Ordinary Turks believed that their blunt, traditionalist prime minister cherished their interests in a way his more cosmopolitan predecessors did not.
Then came the swirl of corruption rumors, corruption on a massive multi-billion dollar scale. Police fired tear gas and water cannon at people protesting the death of a 15-year-old boy who died in demonstrations against development of Gezi Park in central Istanbul. 
Audio was posted to social media that purported to reveal the prime minister in plots with his son to collect and conceal tens of millions of Euros in illegal cash. (Erdogan has claimed that a corruption investigation that entangled four of his former cabinet ministers is a "coup plot" and that some of the recordings are "immorally edited material".)
Erdogan has responded with more censorship and more controls, culminating in the Twitter ban. That ban failed -- yet the underlying problem remains: the country that was once the West's most reliable partner in the Islamic world is not so reliable any more. Turkey defies embargoes to trade with Iran. Turkish foreign policy has sought to build relationships with everyone and anyone except Turkey's traditional Western partners: with Syria, China, Russia, anyone.
With Russia's seizure of Crimea, the once-exotic and once-remote Black Sea region has suddenly emerged as a central global zone of conflict. Time was when the United States and the Western world could count on a steady, responsible and democratizing ally on the south shore of that sea. No more. The Twitter ban has collapsed. All the bad impulses that imposed that Twitter ban remain in place -- and will remain so long as Erdogan remains in office.
The promise of an Islamic version of Christian Democracy has proved a big lie. Instead, the country that was once the most stable, reliable and democratic state in the Islamic world seems now to have cast itself as the region's saddest backward-slider -- with its ever more authoritarian leader playing the role of an Islamic Vladimir Putin, or maybe Eva Peron. 
U.S. President Barack Obama begins a key European trip Monday during a pivotal moment of his presidency.  
He will use a series of key meetings this week to re-assert U.S. global leadership at a time when the United States, and the wider West, has appeared to be on the back foot following Russia's incursion into Ukraine and subsequent annexation of Crimea.
The immediate focal point will be an emergency meeting of the G7 which will take place at The Nuclear Security Summit (NSS) Monday and Tuesday in The Hague.
The G7 session will convene on the margins of the NSS to discuss next steps for tackling the crisis in Ukraine, including deterring the prospect of Russian military moves into eastern and southern Ukraine.
The agenda here is at least two-fold: bolstering the new leadership in Kiev, and threatening further economic punishment of Moscow. On the former, Ukraine signed last Friday an agreement on closer economic and political cooperation with the EU.  
Moreover, Washington has confirmed that it is providing Kiev with "non-lethal assistance" that could include intelligence and satellite imagery, and/or key equipment such as night-vision goggles.
The United States and the 28 member EU have already imposed travel bans and selective asset freezes against key Russian and Crimea officials, and a bank deemed to have close ties with the Kremlin. It is recognized, however, that further escalation may be needed, and Obama will seek to find consensus on this given the differing bilateral interests with Russia of the G7 countries.
Potential measures include widening the punitive measures against targeted Russian and Crimean officials and institutions; an arms embargo; Moscow's expulsion from the G8; and wider, more politically sensitive economic sanctions. 
The scene was set for the latter last Thursday when Obama signed an executive order expanding the U.S. government's authority to take financial and trade measures with the European Union against key Russian industries.
In the face of some strident recent domestic U.S. criticism of his foreign policy, Obama will also have platforms to showcase presidential leadership at both the EU-U.S. summit on Wednesday, and the NSS where he will meet with more than 50 national leaders including Chinese President Xi. 
The NSS, which will focus on measures to enhance security of nuclear material stockpiles and facilities across the world, is the brainchild of Obama who believes that nuclear terrorism represents "the most immediate and extreme threat to global security."
The downturn in relations between Russia and the West is unfortunate here given that Moscow is a pre-eminent player in attempts to counter the nuclear terrorism threat.  Indeed, this issue first came prominently onto the international radar screen following the collapse of the Soviet Union when major concerns were raised about safeguarding its nuclear weaponry.  
More recently, the urgency of tackling this agenda was given impetus by the September 2001 attacks. This was widely interpreted as a "wake-up call" about the possibility that a terrorist group could detonate a small nuclear weapon, or a radiological dispersal device (a so-called "dirty bomb").
While the conventional wisdom is that the probability of a major nuclear terrorism event is very low, the consequences would be so dramatic that it remains a major pre-occupation of the international community. Given the difficulties of terrorist groups obtaining weapons grade material, perhaps the bigger danger is a dirty bomb attack. Here, conventional explosives would be used to spread radiation from a radioactive source.
Such radioactive sources are relatively widely available, including at hospitals.  
Only last December, law enforcement authorities in Mexico discovered a vehicle believed to have been stolen by thieves which contained radioactive medical materials that could have been used to power a dirty bomb.
Amongst the ambitious goals for the NSS include: ratification of the amended Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material by more countries to ensure that the amendment enters into force as soon as possible; more frequent reviews of state security structures by the International Atomic Energy Authority; national registration and protection of highly radioactive sources (e.g. medical equipment); and a greater role for industry in nuclear security to enhance the security culture and existing regulations.
Following up on the summit, a significant body of further work will be needed to achieve Obama's stated ambition to "secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world" during his presidency. The next NSS will be in Washington DC in 2016 and will coincide with his last year in the White House.
Given recent criticism of his foreign policy, and conscious of his place in history, Obama sees enhancing global nuclear security as a key part of his presidential legacy, especially following the agreement he signed with Moscow on the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (NEW START) which will see both countries reduce their deployed nuclear arsenals.  
Building upon this success, he will now seek to secure the strongest possible outcomes from the NSS process, and also push hard for a comprehensive nuclear deal to be reached with Iran to follow-up on last year's breakthrough preliminary agreement.
With a breezy sweep of his pen President Vladimir Putin wrote a new chapter into Crimea's turbulent history, committing the region to a future returned to Russian domain. 
Sixty years prior, Ukraine's breakaway peninsula was signed away just as swiftly by Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev. 
But dealing with such a blatant land grab on its eastern flank won't be anywhere near as quick and easy for Europe's 28-member union.
After initially slapping visa restrictions and asset freezes on a limited number of little known politicians and military men, Europe is facing urgent calls to widen the scope of its measures to target the Russian business community in particular. 
The logic of this is that those who run Russia and own it are essentially two sides of the coin. 
Alexei Navalny, one-time Moscow mayoral contender now under house arrest for opposing the current regime, called for Europe's leaders to ban everyone -- from Vladimir Putin's personal banker to Chelsea Football Club owner Roman Abramovich from keeping their money and loved ones abroad.
Asset freezes and visa restrictions are especially palatable options for the EU because they can be rolled out on a discretionary basis, without requiring cumbersome legal procedures and recourse. 
In fact Russia cancels visas for people it doesn't like all the time. Just look at Hermitage Capital founder Bill Browder who lost both his right of entry and Moscow-based money in 2005 and dare not go back. 
Russia also banned the adoption of its orphans by Americans in retaliation for the US's implementation of an anti-corruption law named after Sergei Magnitsky, Browder's lawyer who died after a year in a Moscow detention center, apparently beaten to death.  
Yet in playing the 'money talks' card, Europe must be ready for the consequences of such action. Because money also walks.
As such EU leaders must be ready to accept sanctions are a two-way street and will hurt both sides.
Targeting Russia's peripatetic business community would be one way of sapping their tenuous support for President Putin. 
And such a strategy might also turn out to have a silver lining: awarding EU countries a chance to finally deal with some of the more unpleasant sides of their patronage, including money laundering and corruption, which have inflated prize assets like London property and Picasso paintings for years.
Two decades of post-Soviet rapprochement and almost $500 billion worth of commerce is a lot to put at stake.
It's true that any trade war would hurt Russia far harder than it would the EU - not least because 15% of the former's GDP comes from exports to the bloc. 
But Europe - with its hefty reliance on Russian gas - would have a hard time keeping its factories going and citizens warm without power from the east. 
And while Putin flexes his political muscle, open trade channels keep the dialogue going giving all sides a chance to change the subject and talk less tensely. 
No one can afford to cut off that lifeline, especially now with Europe's economy on the rebound and Russia's one on the wane. 
Read: Would World Cup boycott hit harder than sanctions?Read: West's sanctions on Russia: Are they just for show?
President Barack Obama and other world leaders have decided to end Russia's role in the group of leading industrialized nations, the White House said Monday.
The move to suspend Russia's membership in the G8 is the latest direct response from major countries allied against Russia's annexation of Crimea. 
"International law prohibits the acquisition of part or all of another state's territory through coercion or force," the statement said. "To do so violates the principles upon which the international system is built.  We condemn the illegal referendum held in Crimea in violation of Ukraine's constitution. 
"We also strongly condemn Russia's illegal attempt to annex Crimea in contravention of international law and specific international obligations."
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said earlier in the day that being kicked out of G8 would be no big deal.
"G8 is an informal organization that does not give out any membership cards and, by its definition, cannot remove anyone," he said during a news conference. " All the economic and financial questions are decided in G20, and G8 has the purpose of existence as the forum of dialogue between the leading Western countries and Russia."
Lavrov added that Russia was "not attached to this format and we don't see a great misfortune if it will not gather. Maybe, for a year or two, it will be an experiment for us to see how we live without it."
In a nod to political and economic reforms, the United States, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, and Italy added Russia to their group in 1998 -- transforming it from the G7 to the G8.
An aide to British Prime Minister David Cameron confirmed to CNN that a group summit initially planned for June in Sochi, Russia, where the Winter Olympics were just held, is now off.
The United States and its allies in Europe are "united in imposing a cost on Russia for its actions so far," Obama said earlier in the Netherlands where he attended a nuclear security summit with other world leaders.
Western powers have imposed sanctions and other penalties against specific people in Russia close to President Vladimir Putin.
A senior Obama administration official, not speaking for full attribution, said Obama and other leaders agreed that further steps to punish Russian President Vladimir Putin could include sanctions on energy, banking and defense sectors -- all areas where Europe is deeply engaged economically with Russia. 
Those additional sanctions could be prompted if Russia further escalates its incursion into Ukraine, which the official defined as sending troops beyond Crimea into the southern or eastern parts of the country. Violence in the contested peninsula could also trigger further sanctions.
While the official said further penetration of Ukraine by Russian troops remains the most immediate source of concern for the United States, other potential land grabs also worry the United States and its allies. 
NATO has expressed concern Russia could attempt to reclaim a region of Moldova with Russian sympathies.
Obama has said a military incursion in Ukraine is off the table, and his advisers are hesitant to even frame the crisis in Ukraine as a bad '80s flashback -- Obama in one corner, Putin in the other. It's not "Rocky IV," as Secretary of State John Kerry said. 
White House officials don't care to publicly muse about Putin's intentions.  
National Security Adviser Susan Rice said the Russian President's actions speak for themselves.
The White House emphasis throughout the Russian occupation of Crimea has been "de-escalation."
Asked whether the United States will provide military aid to Ukraine's woefully underfunded armed forces, administration officials cautioned that such assistance could inflame tensions. 
"Our focus has been and remains on the economic and diplomatic instruments at this point," Rice said. "Our interest is not in seeing the situation escalate and devolve into hot conflict."
Lavrov met with Kerry on Monday and said Russia's action in Crimea was necessary.
"It was the necessity to protect Russians who live there and who lived there for centuries," he said in the news conference. "And when our partners compare Crimea to Kosovo, because in Kosovo a lot of blood was shed then its independence was proclaimed. So we have a question then: Is it necessary for the blood to be shed in Crimea to agree on the right of the people in Crimea for self-determination?"
While Democratic and Republican lawmakers in the United States are stepping up their calls to provide Ukraine with light arms and other military aid, administration officials have argued that sanctions put in place so far must be given time to take hold. 
With an estimated 20,000 Russian troops on Ukraine's border, the question is whether Obama's use of soft power will deter Putin. 
With little resistance, the Russian President could easily move into eastern Ukraine even as Obama seeks to isolate Moscow in meetings with European allies. It's a possibility not lost on senior administration officials. 
House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican, argued the Russian leader is likely eying more opportunities in the coming days. 
"(Putin) has put all the military units he would need to move into Ukraine on its eastern border and is doing exercises. We see him moving forces in the south in a position where they could take the southern region over to Moldova," Rogers said on NBC's "Meet the Press."
There are other approaches. Obama's former ambassador to Russia, Michael McFaul, urged the administration to intensify its policy of isolating Putin.
"Mr. Putin's Russia has no real allies. We must keep it that way," McFaul wrote in an op-ed in the New York Times.
Hackers have been busy causing service interruptions, breaching databases, and defacing hundreds of Ukrainian and Russian websites, as the crisis between the two countries plays out in cyberwarfare. 
The attacks have similarities to the resistance movement that sprung up among German-occupied countries during World War II, which took many forms including sabotage, espionage, armed confrontation and counter-propaganda.
In addition to that list, today we can add digital or web-based actions including Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks, which shut down key websites, the defacement of government websites, and breaching government or key industry networks to access sensitive documents and release them to the world.
Services like Twitter and Instagram may be used to capture events in real-time, and YouTube may be used for recruitment, training and propaganda purposes.
The global networks that enable the incredible global communication and information-sharing applications we have all come to enjoy, all use insecure hardware and software. Just like there's no human cell that is immune to every virus, there's no piece of software that is immune from being exploited.
As a result, the most powerful nations in the world today cannot reliably defend their own information and communications infrastructure from targeted attacks, by even a single hacker.
To make matters worse, many of today's best hackers aren't employed by their respective governments.
While the resistance movement of World War II had fewer skills to bring to combat than members of the armed forces, today we see a "super-resistance" composed of elite hackers, for whom cracking a secure network is certainly equal to and in some cases superior to that of a militarized cyberwarfare unit.
Shortly after police cracked down on "Euromaidan" street protesters, who were calling for closer integration with the EU, in Kiev in November last year, Ukrainian security engineers began discussing the necessity of forming an all-volunteer cyberdefense force. By March 1, 2014, cyberattacks on both sides kicked into high gear.
OpRussia, a hacker group formed under the Anonymous umbrella, posted a warning to Russian President Putin that his aggression against Ukraine would not stand on March 1, 2014.
Since then, members of OpRussia have been attacking Russian business and government websites on a daily basis, including the website for the Russian Air Force, the website of the Kamchatka region, Russia's narcotics control service, and even a Russian escort service.
Russian CyberCommand is another group of hackers, some of whom are Russian, who oppose Putin's annexation of Crimea and have been relentless in their attacks against Russian businesses and agencies such as Rosoboronexport -- Russia's sole agency authorized to sell defense and dual-use products and technologies to foreign entities -- and SearchInform.ru -- a Russian IT security company that provides services to Gazprom, Skolkovo, and other important organizations.
While the name Anonymous is frequently associated with cyberoperations that support revolutionary movements, that wasn't the case with these next two groups: Anonymous Ukraine and CyberBerkut, both of whom are Pro-Russia groups.
Anonymous Ukraine attacked NATO websites on November 7 when Ukraine was considering establishing closer ties with the EU as well as NATO membership.
On March 15, CyberBerkut attacked NATO websites again, however those attacks were a small percentage of CyberBerkut's onslaught against several hundred Ukrainian government and commercial websites from March 3 up until the present.
The group's logo and name come directly from Ukraine's old special police unit "Berkut" and there are rumors that the group is composed of either Ukrainian or Russian former security services personnel.
As of March 18, Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk said that Ukraine would not be seeking NATO membership, a move designed to placate Russia as well as Ukraine's large Russian-speaking population. 
Yatsenyuk also announced a willingness to maintain political ties with the EU but will delay signing any economic agreements for the time being.
Some Western pundits have drawn similarities between the current cyberattacks and those that happened during previous conflicts. 
Most of the Georgian government's communications systems were shut down by Russian hackers during the conflict there in 2008. But in fact there's very little similarity, and no actual evidence linking the Russian government to the current wave of cyberattacks against Ukrainian websites.
This is not a page out of the "Russian Cyber Playbook" for several reasons:
Firstly, the Nashi, a government-financed Russian youth organization that was responsible for the attacks against Estonia in 2007 and Georgia in 2008 is no more.
And secondly, in 2008, Russian hacker forums were actively recruiting volunteers for attacks against Georgia. Not so today. In fact, many Russian hackers are angry with Putin and are supporting an independent Ukraine.
Time has not stood still since August 2008. In 2010, Russia published a new military doctrine which acknowledged the "intensification of the role of information warfare" and assigned as a task to "develop forces and resources for information warfare."
Russia and most other nations have been investing hundreds of millions of dollars to improve their capabilities to conduct electronic warfare, information warfare, and cyber warfare via increasingly sophisticated means; and by that I mean techniques that include compromising a nation's electrical grid or GPS navigation system from the canopy of a combat helicopter.
Russia, in particular, has spent the last few years developing dual-use technologies that will never be seen or defended against by its target -- for example, malware research that could be used to both defend against malware in peace time and use malware offensively as part of a military operation.
But there will always be highly-skilled civilians who can quickly organize online, distribute easy-to-use denial of service tools, and cause mayhem and embarrassment to the enemy, whoever he may be.
"We must be on you but cannot see you."  That was one of the very last voice signals transmitted by Amelia Earhart in the summer of 1937, somewhere over the vast Pacific Ocean during her ill-fated flight around the globe. 
An intense search led by the U.S. Navy was launched to find Earhart and her plane, but after several weeks, nothing was found.
"All right, good night." Those were the last words transmitted 17 days ago from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, somewhere over the South China Sea between Kuala Lumpur and Ho Chi Minh City. 
An international search led by the Malaysian government and Malaysia Airlines and joined by governments and private companies from the United States, Great Britain, China, Australia, Norway, Japan, New Zealand and others have narrowed down a possible search region to a vast chunk of the Indian Ocean southwest of Perth, Australia.
"This is probably the one of the largest efforts you'll ever see in terms of maritime surveillance and joint operations," Australian Defense Minister David Johnston said Tuesday.
Reports now seem to support the theory, popularized by pilot instructor Chris Goodfellow, that an incapacitating emergency led the pilots to divert the Boeing 777 toward the closest airport (hence turning south) while simultaneously trying to fight an electrical fire of some sort until they were overcome. Experts believe that the jet continued on dumb autopilot until it was, like Earhart's Lockheed Electra, out of fuel, plunging into the sea. 
Earhart was lost on July 2, 1937. MH370 disappeared March 8, 2014, more than two weeks ago. 
Earhart and her navigator, Fred Noonan, disappeared just a few years before World War II erupted and a new world order emerged: what is often called the American century. And the three-week search effort for Earhart was entirely American, directed by the Navy.
Flight 370 was operated by Malaysia's national airline, en route to Beijing. The flight was the opposite of pioneering, instead a routine long haul of 227 passengers, with a coach class ticket costing about $530.  But in this case, the search effort is extraordinary and much more international in scope.
This time, it's not just the Americans. The Australians, the Chinese and the Norwegians are deploying their air forces and navies with cutting-edge technologies for weeks on end to help. Pakistani radar, Chinese satellites, even NASA aided the search. Add to that countless hours of analytical personnel. In the end, it was a private British satellite company, Inmarsat, that confirmed the likely flight path and terminus.
According to some reports, this is the most expensive search effort in history. Although there was strong criticism against the Malaysian government for delays and missteps during the initial days of the investigation, it seems as if the international community has largely united in focusing massive resources on finding the plane.
There was nobody famous on the flight and yet it is somehow unremarkable that dozens of nations are expending millions of dollars to solve the mystery. 
All this stands in stark contrast to Russia's opportunistic conquest of the Crimean peninsula, a major part of the neighboring nation of Ukraine. That sort of nationalist land grab reminds me less of the Cold War than of norms of the 18th century and just about every century of history prior. Certainly, there's something extraordinary and dangerous going on in the Crimea, but a calmer, more patient, more historical assessment distinguishes the reflexive nationalism of a weakened ex-empire from the larger trends in a globalizing world.
Or what about the civil war in Syria? Or the heightened tensions on the North Korean peninsula? Or the disputes between Japan and Korea over the "Sea of Japan" versus the "East Sea"? Or the uprisings in Venezuela?
All are hot spots where the international community has largely been paralyzed, unable to do much more than call for multilateral inquiries and issue hollow condemnations.
So what's left to be seen is whether this unprecedented international coalition assembled to scour the ocean for the remains of Flight 370 is one of the few bright spots in an otherwise devastating tragedy for the families of the 227 passengers and 12 crew members. Or whether this is merely a one-off proposition where each nation is acting in its own self-interest to do what it must for its own citizens, while feigning cooperation for the world stage.
I prefer to see the goodness here, that the world can come together and work together when it counts. 
Sometimes it takes a tragedy to remind us of the everyday miracles of our time.
 Interim Ukrainian President Oleksandr Turchynov ordered the withdrawal of armed forces from Crimea Monday, citing Russian threats to the lives of military staff and their families.
Russian troops have seized most of Ukraine's bases in the peninsula, including a naval base at Feodosia on Monday. Russia annexed Crimea last week after a controversial referendum that Ukraine and the West say was illegal.
"The acting President of Ukraine has given an order to the Ukraine Defense Ministry for the withdrawal of all Ukrainian forces from Crimea," a spokeswoman for Turchynov told CNN. The soldiers' families will be evacuated as well.
Earlier, Russian troops stormed and seized the Ukrainian naval base in Feodosia, a port in Crimea, a Ukrainian Defense Ministry spokesman said. Witnesses said several Mi-24 and Mi-8 helicopters were involved in the raid. Between 60 and 80 Ukrainian troops were captured and taken from the base, said Vladislav Seleznev, a Ukrainian Defense Ministry spokesman in Crimea.
Ukrainians had said they would leave the base if they were allowed to take their weapons with them. 
Russian forces consolidated their control of the Black Sea peninsula over the weekend. 
On Saturday, six Russian special forces armored personnel carriers broke through the gates of Belbek air base, firing warning shots into the air. In separate incidents, pro-Russian self-defense forces stormed the Novofederoskoe military base as well as a Ukrainian ship, the Slavutych.
On a trip to Crimea Monday, Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu appointed Rear Adm. Denis Berezovsky deputy commander of the Russian Black Sea Fleet, Russia's ITAR-Tass reported.  That fleet is based in the Crimean city of Sevastopol, making it strategically important to Moscow.
Shoigu also met with former Ukrainian military personnel, who are now willing to serve in the Russian army, state news agency RIA-Novosti reported.
NATO's top military commander expressed concern Sunday about the buildup of Russian forces on Ukraine's border.
Supreme Allied Commander Europe Gen. Philip Breedlove said that Russia had a large force on Ukraine's eastern border and that he was worried it could threaten Moldova's separatist Transnistria region.
The Russian force "at the Ukrainian border now to the east is very, very sizable and very, very ready," said Breedlove, a U.S. Air Force general.
Russia said the presence of its forces complied with international agreements.  Moscow annexed Crimea after a snap referendum in the autonomous region last week that appeared to produce an overwhelming majority of votes in favor of leaving Ukraine to join Russia.
"Russia is acting much more like an adversary than a partner," Breedlove said, speaking at an event held in Brussels, Belgium, by the German Marshall Fund think tank.
A senior U.S. defense official told CNN Russia "has enough troops that we believe they could move against Ukraine at any time now." 
The official emphasized that Washington still does not know Russia's intentions on the border, despite statements by Moscow that the troops are there for exercises. U.S. intelligence also indicates that the Russian forces are positioned to possibly go after three Ukrainian cities: Kharkiv, Luhansk and Donetsk. Russian forces have moved so close to the border, there would be no warning time, and the U.S. would likely only see an incursion as it was happening, the official said.
Ukraine's new leaders -- who took office after months of protests forced President Viktor Yanukovych, a Russian ally, from office -- as well as the United States and other Western powers say Crimea is still a part of Ukraine.
Russia insists its actions are legitimate. Crimea had belonged to Russia until 1954, when it was given to Ukraine. The region also has a majority ethnic Russian population and other long historic ties to Russia. 
Moscow has doggedly pursued its own course, even as Western leaders have denounced its actions as violations of Ukraine's sovereignty and a breach of international law.
U.S. President Barack Obama arrived at The Hague on Monday for a G7 summit on threats to nuclear security. The G7 is a group of the world's seven wealthiest industrialized nations. 
Diplomats at the G7 were talking about Ukraine on the sidelines of the long-planned summit.
"Europe and America are united in our support of the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian people," Obama said. "We're united in imposing a cost on Russia for its actions so far."
Obama and other world leaders decided to end Russia's role in G8, the group of leading industrialized nations plus Russia, the White House said Monday.
"International law prohibits the acquisition of part or all of another state's territory through coercion or force," the White House statement said. "To do so violates the principles upon which the international system is built.  We condemn the illegal referendum held in Crimea in violation of Ukraine's constitution."
Earlier in the day, Russia's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said being kicked out of G8 would be no big deal.
"G8 is an informal organization that does not give out any membership cards and, by its definition, cannot remove anyone," he said during a news conference. "All the economic and financial questions are decided in G20, and G8 has the purpose of existence as the forum of dialogue between the leading Western countries and Russia. 
"If our Western partners believe that this organizational format has outlived (its usefulness), so be it."
 Ahead of Monday's G7 meeting, a representative for British Prime Minister David Cameron said Monday that no G8 meeting -- a group of the world's seven top industrial powers plus Russia -- would take place in Russia this year as previously planned.
The G7 had already suspended preparations for a planned G8 summit in the Russian city of Sochi. Monday's comment by Cameron's representative ruling the meeting out altogether comes as the West tries to increase Moscow's isolation over its actions in Ukraine.
Also at the nuclear summit Monday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov met with Ukrainian Interim Foreign Minister Andrii Deshchytsia and, separately, with U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry.
During his meeting with Lavrov, Kerry expressed concern about Russian troops amassed on the Ukrainian border, U.S.State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said.
Also Monday, Russia's Foreign Ministry announced it was issuing retaliatory sanctions against 13 Canadian public figures, in response to a similar move by Canada last week against Russian officials over the Crimean situation, RIA-Novosti reported.
Russia is banning the Canadian officials -- including several aides to Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper -- from entering the country, according to RIA-Novosti.
EU leaders imposed a new round of sanctions against 12 people last week, bringing the total number of people facing EU asset freezes and travel bans to 33. Canada also announced its own sanctions against Russian officials last week.
The United States announced its own new round of sanctions against 20 people and a bank that U.S. officials say is linked to Putin and senior Russian officials. Washington had already announced sanctions on 11 people.
Russia responded with its own list of sanctions against a number of U.S. lawmakers and officials.
President Barack Obama and congressional leaders described similar proposals Tuesday for ending the National Security Agency's sweeping collection of bulk telephone records.
Obama told reporters in The Netherlands that his intelligence team gave him a "workable" option for NSA reform that he said would "eliminate " concerns about how the government keeps the records known as metadata.
At a news conference in Washington, the leaders of the House Intelligence Committee said they worked out their own bipartisan compromise on a similar proposal intended to alleviate what they characterized as unfounded fears of excessive government surveillance.
The nearly simultaneous remarks demonstrated progress toward Obama's call in January for NSA changes in the aftermath of last year's classified leaks by former agency contractor Edward Snowden that revealed the magnitude of surveillance programs created in response to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
However, the issue touches on deep political and ideological fissures between Republicans and Democrats, promising an extended battle in Congress over the necessary legislation -- especially in an election year.
A senior administration official told CNN that the White House plan, first reported by The New York Times, would ensure "the government no longer collects or holds" the telephone metadata -- records that include the numbers and time of calls, but no content such as the actual conversation.
According to the official, the proposal "still ensures that the government has access to the information it needs" for national security purposes.
The official declined to specify where the bulk phone metadata would ultimately be stored. Now it is collected by the NSA under broad legal authority to keep it for five years.
It was not immediately clear how the White House proposal differed from the compromise announced by Reps. Mike Rogers of Michigan and Dutch Ruppersberger of Maryland -- the top Republican and Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee.
Their plan would end the automatic NSA collection of phone metadata, with telecommunications companies keeping such records for at least 18 months -- as they do now.
Two layers of court approval would be needed to access the records -- one for the overall surveillance program seeking the information, and another for the specific foreign phone number being investigated, the legislators said.
The Snowden leaks unleashed a political firestorm, with privacy advocates and others calling the NSA surveillance programs a violation of constitutional rights.
In particular, many Americans feared inevitable abuse of a system in which the government collected billions of phone records for possible review in terrorism investigations.
Snowden, now living in Russia while seeking asylum from U.S. prosecution, has repeatedly described the surveillance programs illuminated  by his leaks as unconstitutional.
Several legal challenges have been mounted against the NSA programs, and some of those cases could reach the Supreme Court in coming years to set up a judicial review of the constitutional limits of government surveillance in the post 9/11 era.
Obama and the two House legislators all said Tuesday the current system was legal, but needed changing to reassure a skeptical public
In The Hague, Obama argued that "clear safeguards" exist against "some of the dangers that people hypothesize when it came to bulk data."
"But I recognize that people were concerned about what might happen in the future with that bulk data," he said. "This proposal that's been presented to me would eliminate that concern."
Rogers argued no abuses occurred under the present system, but he acknowledged public concern about the possibility of problems down the road if the government kept such vast stores of information.
"That's really what we're trying to do here is alleviate that concern that there could be abuse in the future of these programs," he said.
Authorization for the current NSA programs expires on Friday, and Obama will seek a temporary renewal until Congress passes reform legislation, the senior administration official said.
News of the proposed changes came during Obama's trip to Europe, where he's mobilizing support for isolating Russia over its military occupation and annexation of Crimea from Ukraine.
Snowden's leaks put the NSA's surveillance activities under global scrutiny. The revelations included U.S. spying on European allies and others, sparking diplomatic protests.
In January, Obama outlined a series of steps -- some immediate and some requiring time to work out, possibly with Congress -- that would change aspects of the NSA collection of phone records and other information but generally leave intact the core and function of existing programs.
Rogers and Ruppersberger said Tuesday that nine months of negotiations involving the intelligence community and other stakeholders led to their proposed legislation.
The White House was involved in the discussions, Ruppersberger said, while Rogers noted the Obama proposal came out after the committee shared its plan with the White House earlier this week.
He noted that more work remains to be done to narrow differences with the White House and the Senate.
"We're feeling pretty good about people starting to coalesce around a solution," Rogers said, adding that "there will be people who are married to their own positions."
Initial reaction to the White House plan included praise with some caution.
Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon, a leading critic of the NSA surveillance programs, said news of the White House plan amounted to an executive branch retreat.
"For years, the executive branch said it was essential to have this information, that it was indispensable," Wyden said, noting he and colleagues argued against that notion. "Today's exciting news for the constitutional rights of the American people is the administration said they agree with us."
Michelle Richardson, legislative counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union, called the reported White House plan "a crucial first step towards reining in the NSA's overreaching surveillance."
"The change would replace the dragnet surveillance of millions of innocent people with targeted methods that are both effective and respect Americans' constitutional rights," Richardson said, adding: "It is critical that the administration also end other bulk collection programs."
Report: Ukraine military dolphins to switch nationalities, join Russian navy
Weeks after Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimea region, it  plans to take custody of dolphins in the nation as well.
Not just any dolphins. These highly trained military mammals detect risks such as sea mines or enemy scuba divers trying to slip through. Sea mines are sophisticated weapons that can sink ships and other watercraft.
"The combat dolphin program in the Crimean city of Sevastopol will be preserved and redirected toward the interests of the Russian navy," state-run Russian news agency RIA Novosti reported Thursday.
Dolphins are a crucial part of open-water security. They detect sounds and objects in murky waters that  human beings can't, making them uniquely effective at highlighting dangers on the sea floor.
Ukraine was using outdated military equipment for the dolphin program and planned to disband it next month, RIA Novosti said.
The Ukraine Defense Ministry told CNN that the nation has an ocean dolphin facility, but declined to provide details, saying they're classified.
The dolphin program dates to the 1960s, when Russia and Ukraine were part of the Soviet Union, but was handed over to Kiev after independence.
The U.S. Navy in San Diego also trains dolphins and sea lions to help protect its assets and find dangerous objects underwater.
Tensions between Moscow and Kiev have escalated since Russia reclaimed the Crimea region after a referendum this month that overwhelmingly supported the annexation. The United States and its allies have pledged to isolate Russia for its actions.
Ukraine also has combat sea lions that operate under the same base. It's unclear whether they'll be barking allegiances to Moscow or Kiev.
READ: Funeral for 'Robin Hood' draws Ukraine nationalists -- paramilitary to pensioner
U.S. President Barack Obama on Wednesday again called for Russia to de-escalate the situation in Ukraine and warned of further isolation and "costs" if Moscow doesn't respond to the West's call for a change of course.
The United States and Europe are united in their support for Ukraine, including the need for economic assistance, and in their efforts to isolate Russia for its intervention in Crimea, Obama said, speaking at an European Union-U.S. summit in Brussels, Belgium.
He left the door open for diplomacy to resolve the situation but said Russia would face increasing isolation and deeper sanctions if it engages in further incursions into Ukraine.
"If anyone in the Russian leadership thought the world wouldn't care about their actions in Ukraine or that they could drive a wedge between the European Union and the United States, they clearly miscalculated," Obama said. 
The United States and Europe recognize that sanctions could have wider global implications, especially for those countries reliant on Russian oil and natural gas, Obama said. But discussions are under way on making it easier to export U.S. natural gas to Europe, as well as on other trade issues, he said.
Russia's intervention in Ukraine's Crimea region has sparked the biggest East-West confrontation since the end of the Cold War.
And at a later speech in Brussels, Obama said Russia's annexation of Crimea must be met with condemnation -- "not because we're trying to keep Russia down, but because the principles that have meant so much to Europe and the world must be upheld."
Meanwhile, Moscow's massing of troops near Ukraine's eastern borders has worried the interim government in Kiev and caused ripples of concern in other former Soviet republics that now belong to the EU and NATO. 
NATO's top commander has voiced worries that Russian troops could roll into Moldova's separatist region Transnistria, on the opposite side of Ukraine, and Russia fought a brief war with the former Soviet republic of Georgia about five years ago.
A new U.S. intelligence assessment concludes that a Russian incursion into eastern Ukraine is more likely than previously thought, CNN has learned. U.S. officials believe the Russian buildup gives Moscow the ability to move rapidly into Ukraine without the United States being able to predict it when it happens.
Two Obama administration officials described the classified assessment to CNN but declined to be identified due to the sensitive nature of the information. The officials emphasize that nothing is certain, but in the last three to four days, there have been several worrying signs.
"This has shifted our thinking that the likelihood of a further Russian incursion is more probable than it was previously thought to be," one official said. The Russian buildup is reminiscent of Moscow's military moves before it went into Chechnya and Georgia in both the number of units and their capabilities, the official said. 
Crimea is currently separated from the rest of Russia by a strait that links the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov. U.S. officials believe Russia might decide to go into eastern Ukraine to establish a land bridge into the territory by moving toward the Ukrainian cities of Kharkiv, Luhansk and Donetska. 
Russian forces are currently positioned in and around Rostov, Kursk and Belgorod, according to U.S. intelligence information. The estimated 30,000 troops are "significantly more" than what is needed for the military exercises Russia says it has been conducting, and there is no sign the troops are making any move to return to their home bases.
They include large numbers of motorized units that are capable of moving quickly, and additional contingents -- special forces, airborne troops, air transport -- appear to be at a higher state of mobilization in other locations in Russia, according to the intelligence assessment. 
Additional intelligence suggests that more Russian forces are "reinforcing" the border region, according to both Obama administration officials. Russian troops already in the border region include air defense artillery and wheeled vehicles, and all the troops are positioned for potential military action.
U.S. military and intelligence officials have been briefing Congress on the new assessment. As a result, Republican members of the House Armed Services Committee late Wednesday sent a classified letter to the White House expressing concern about unfolding developments.  
An unclassified version obtained by CNN says committee members feel "urgency and alarm, based on new information in the committee's possession." The committee says there is "deep apprehension that Moscow may invade eastern and southern Ukraine, pressing west to (Transnistria) and also seek land grabs in the Baltics." 
Gen. Philip Breedlove, head of the U.S. European Command and military chief of NATO, noted the Russians had sufficient forces to move into Moldova. But Obama warned Russia on Wednesday that it faces a united front in the West. 
Speaking alongside Obama, European Council President Herman Van Rompuy also struck a note of unity, saying Europe and the United States "have a strong and coordinated position" on Ukraine.
Russia's annexation of Crimea is "a disgrace in the 21st century, and we will not recognize it," he said.
Europe also stands by Georgia and Moldova, Van Rompuy said, and has brought forward the signing of association documents with them to June, bringing the prospect of closer ties to Europe.
Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, said the United States and EU "are working together to make sure that actions that are unacceptable will bear serious consequences." 
Russia insists its actions are legitimate and denies having used its armed forces in Crimea, saying the troops that took control of key installations there were local "self-defense" forces. 
Russia also insists the government in Kiev is illegitimate because ousted President Viktor Yanukovych, a close ally of Moscow's, was forced out in an armed coup. Yanukovych's ouster followed months of street protests sparked by his decision to ditch an EU trade deal in favor of closer ties to Russia.
In an interview Tuesday with PBS, acting Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk said Ukraine is struggling to maintain a fighting capability after it was "deliberately dismantled" under Yanukovych. He said his government ceded Crimea without a shot to demonstrate to the world that Russia was the aggressor, he said. But if Moscow moves against another portion of Ukraine, "We will fight."
The United States and EU are seeking to exert pressure on Russia through a combination of sanctions and diplomatic isolation. 
An EU-Russia summit has been canceled, and the G7 group of leading industrialized countries has excluded Russia from what was the G8. The G7 will meet in June in Brussels, instead of attending a planned G8 summit in the Russian city of Sochi.
But Moscow has so far doggedly pursued its own course, even as Western leaders have denounced its actions as violations of Ukraine's sovereignty and a breach of international law.
Russia has cited the need to protect ethnic Russians within Ukraine from ultra-nationalists and "fascists" as a justification for intervention on Ukrainian soil.
Hundreds of supporters and paramilitary militia members came out into the streets of Ukraine's western city of Rivne on Wednesday as a funeral was held for a prominent far-right activist, Oleksandr Muzychko, better known as Sashko Biliy.
He was killed late Monday in what the Ukrainian Interior Ministry said was a shootout with police in Rivne. Ukrainian lawmaker Oleksandr Doniy, whose constituency is in Rivne, gave a different version of events, saying the activist was dragged into a car and then shot.
Muzychko, a leader of Right Sector, a far-right group prominent in the recent anti-government protests, was wanted "for his criminal background and illegal carrying of weapons," the ministry said.
Amid the heightened tensions, the Russian Foreign Ministry on Wednesday accused the Ukrainian border service of refusing to let air crew off Aeroflot jets for rest periods after landing in Ukraine. Aeroflot is the Russian national carrier.
This "breaks the international acts in compliance with flight safety requirements," the ministry said in an online statement.
Crimea belonged to Russia until 1954, when it was given to Ukraine, which was then part of the Soviet Union. The region has a majority ethnic Russian population and other historic ties to Russia.
A large majority of its population voted in favor of joining Russia in a controversial referendum 10 days ago. Russian lawmakers in turn swiftly voted to absorb the Black Sea peninsula, where Russia has a major naval base, into the Russian Federation, and President Vladimir Putin signed the treaty into law.
The U.N. General Assembly on Thursday approved a resolution calling the Crimean referendum to secede from Ukraine invalid.
The vote on the nonbinding resolution was 100-11, with 58 countries abstaining.
It's the latest indication of Russia's isolation within the international community over its actions in Ukraine.
Moscow formally annexed Ukraine's southern Crimea region last week, days after the controversial referendum in which a majority of Crimeans voted to leave Ukraine for Russia.
Adding to tensions, Russia now may have as many as 40,000 troops near its border with Ukraine, two U.S. officials told CNN on Thursday. The officials said that this estimate was largely based on satellite imagery and that a firm number is difficult to assess.
However, a spokesman for Ukraine's Council of National Security and Defense told CNN his government estimates 88,000 Russian troops are at the Ukrainian border.
U.S. officials said they believe the higher estimates may reflect Russian troops on alert farther to the east.
Earlier Thursday, former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, released from jail last month, said she intends to run for president in May elections.
After more than two years in prison, she was released in February after the ouster of her archrival, President Viktor Yanukovych.
She has already been Prime Minister twice before and ran for President in 2010.
"Yes, I am planning to run," she said at a news conference at her Kiev office.
Tymoshenko said she intended to ask delegates at her Batkivshchyna Party congress on Saturday to nominate her as a presidential candidate.
Ukraine's elections are taking place against a backdrop of poor economic conditions, Moscow's annexation of Crimea and rumblings of discontent in the mainly Russian-speaking eastern regions.
Tymoshenko's announcement came as the International Monetary Fund announced a $14 billion to $18 billion bailout for Ukraine to avoid bankruptcy. The bailout is tied to painful reforms as the country faces an escalating standoff with Russia.
U.S. President Barack Obama on Thursday praised the loan agreement between the IMF and Ukraine, and said the United States will do its part to help, too. 
Speaking with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi in Rome, Obama said he is calling on Congress to make sure the United States does its part with an economic assistance package to "support the Ukrainian people as they move forward." 
The U.S. Senate on Thursday approved $1 billion in loan guarantees for Ukraine, along with sanctions against Russia for its intervention in Ukraine. 
Obama said he hopes that Russia will walk through the "door of diplomacy" but that its annexation of Crimea means the United States and European Union will increase their sanctions.
Earlier this month the House of Representatives approved Ukraine loan guarantees and is now voting on sanctions. 
With her trademark hair braid, Tymoshenko came to international prominence during the 2004 "Orange Revolution" that toppled Yanukovych's first administration.
A rerun of the election handed the presidency to her political ally, Viktor Yushchenko, under whom she was Prime Minister. Amid broad disappointment with that government's performance, Yanukovych was again elected in 2010.
Tymoshenko was imprisoned in 2011 in a corruption case linked to a gas deal she brokered with Russia in 2009. She served two years of a seven-year term, mainly under prison guard in a hospital in Kharkiv.
Many demonstrators carried her picture during mass anti-government protests that began in November and eventually ousted Yanukovych.
Upon her release from prison, Tymoshenko, in a wheelchair, addressed crowds in Kiev's Independence Square, the epicenter of the rallies that began when Yanukovych spurned a deal with the EU in favor of closer ties with Moscow.
Early presidential elections in Ukraine are scheduled for May 25. Former boxer Vitaliy Klitschko and billionaire businessman Petro Poroshenko are also expected to take part in the elections.
Read: Yulia Tymoshenko walks out of prison, and back into Ukrainian politics
Read: Funeral for 'Robin Hood' draws Ukraine nationalists -- paramilitary to pensioner
Pro basketball is a staple of American athletics, taking its place with Major League Baseball and the National Football League as one of the pre-eminent U.S. sports leagues. And it's big business, too, pumping tens of millions of dollars into the U.S. economy.
So the owner of the Brooklyn Nets raised eyebrows this week when he said he planned to transfer ownership of the team to a company in Russia -- at a time when tension between the U.S. and Russia is at its highest level since the end of the Cold War.
The billionaire owner, Mikhail Prokhorov, Monday reiterated his year-old intention to transfer the Brooklyn Nets ownership base to Russia, but has since toned down his rhetoric.
"This is a long process which may or may not come to fruition and nothing is imminent," Prokhorov's company, Onexim Sports and Entertainment, which owns the NBA basketball team, said in a statement released via the Brooklyn Nets. "Of course, no steps in this direction could or would be taken without the full knowledge and approval of the NBA."
On Monday, the 48 year-old Russian national told reporters in Moscow, "I have already stated that I will transfer the basketball club (under the Russian jurisdiction)," according to Russian news agency ITAR-Tass.
"The Nets are owned by Mikhail Prokhorov through a U.S.-based company," Mike Bass, executive vice president of NBA communications, told CNN. "We have received no official application, nor is there a process under way through our office to transfer the ownership of the Nets to another company."
If an application to change ownership was submitted by the Nets, 75% of NBA team owners -- or 23 of 30 -- would have to approve the move, Bass said. He said that the NBA's Board of Governors (the 30 team owners) would have to decide whether there are any issues with the transfer of ownership application.
Currently, the NBA has no rules prohibiting a foreign company from owning an NBA team.
The back-and-forth comes as Russian President Vladimir Putin pushes Russian businessmen to "de-offshore" companies owned abroad.
Last week, Putin stressed the importance of bringing the companies home and making them pay Russian taxes to help grow the economy, according to the Kremlin website.
"Entrepreneurs need to understand their responsibility," Putin told a group of Russian businessmen last week. "Our priority stance is that Russian companies have to be registered here, in their home country and have a transparent ownership structure."
Onexim Group is described as a private investment holding company that owns or manages various metals companies, financial companies and media outlets, as well as the Nets, according to the site.
In recent weeks, Washington has imposed sanctions on senior Russian officials and what officials called "cronies" of Putin, as well as a bank, after warning Putin against annexing Crimea from Ukraine.
President Barack Obama also signed an executive order that authorizes his administration to target Russian companies vital to the economy, including financial services, energy, metals and mining.
When asked about the idea of a basketball team transferring its ownership to be based in Russia, the State Department declined to comment.
Onexim says the discussions to move the Brooklyn Nets under Russia's jurisdiction began in the spring of 2013. At the time, Prokhorov intended to run for public office and the move was an attempt to comply with Russian laws regarding political candidates.
"Mikhail was not in any way tying it to the current political situation," Ellen Pinchuk, director for international projects at the communications adviser group Mikhailov & Partners, said this week.
Prokhorov called the move "an outstanding opportunity to use NBA technologies for the step-by-step development of basketball in Russia," according to ITAR-Tass.
Alexander Kliment, director of Russia research and emerging markets at Eurasia Group, a global political risk and consulting firm, said there is a basic agreement between Putin and oligarchs permitting them to make money as long as they stay out of government. They're also expected to comply with government demands, he said. 
"Prokhorov is falling into line with the Kremlin's broader emphasis on returning the assets of Russia's wealthiest businessmen back to Russia," Kliment said. "There's a political dimension to that: to ensure that the wealthiest are as dependent on him as possible and as independent of the west as possible."
Russia's oligarchs always had to balance keeping assets at home versus abroad, Kliment said, but pressure has been increasing. 
"For a long time the political risk of keeping assets in Russia appeared to be higher, but in the past month that has shifted because of pressure from both the Kremlin and the White House," Kliment added.  
Courtney Brunious, associate director of the USC Marshall Sports Business Institute, said such a move in the sports world could be complicated by the current political situation. 
"Any type of moves that take into consideration the residency of who owns the team would be impacted by whatever laws in the country in which they reside and any type of sanctions that currently or could potentially be placed on a country, such as Russia," Brunious said.
If NBA team owners gather to discuss the transfer they have to consider the best interest of the league and owners, as well the ramifications of ownership change, he said. 
"Anyone that has a background, like Prokhorov, that could be aligned with sanctions, needs to be taken seriously," Brunious said.
He added: "The NBA as a whole wants draw from a large audience. They want to focus on the talent and competition on the court, they don't necessarily want to link up with geopolitical issues."
"Unless the move raises issues with the league or the U.S. government, Nets fans probably shouldn't be worried. As long as the Nets ownership group is financially sound and not running afoul of those groups, the team won't likely feel much of an impact," Brunious said.
Prokhorov became principal owner of the Nets in 2010. He bought 80% of the team, as well as a 45% stake in the Barclays Center, the iconic new facility the team has called home since 2012.
The Brooklyn Nets are worth $780 million, the 5th most valuable franchise in the NBA, according to Forbes.
Prokhorov -- worth $10.4 billion, the 120th richest person in the world and the 11th richest in Russia, according to Forbes -- gained his wealth through minerals and metal investments in the years after the fall of communism in the early 1990s. 
"I like business, it's my profession," Prokhorov told CNN's Matthew Chance in 2011. "I spend, like, 15 hours a day in the office. It's the great joy in my life, and I never think about money."
Prokhorov has shown interest in politics in the past, and even ran for president in Russia as an independent against Putin in 2012. 
At the time, some saw him as too close to the regime in power. Many Russians suspected the Kremlin put Prokhorov up to garner some legitimate votes without being a true threat to Putin, giving the impression that the contest was fair.
Now that warmer spring sunshine is bathing the streets of Kiev, the charred remains from the attacks on the central city are far more evident. 
The sunshine is also warming up debate on the future of the downtown core, which has served since last November as the heart of the protest against the regime of deposed Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych.
This weekend Ukrainians will mark the end of the traditional 40 days of mourning for the at least 100 protesters that were mowed down by sniper, grenade and other live fire during and around February 20. 
Until now, the area around the main square, where the attacks took place, has served as a massive memorial -- framed by mountains of flowers, drawings, photos, candles and poems. Earlier this week a group of men were preparing to build a permanent chapel behind the Hotel Ukraina, one of the vantage points for snipers and a makeshift emergency clinic during the February 20 shootings.
To many, parts of Maidan are gaining the look of semi-permanency. On any given morning activists line up at soup kitchens. Protesters from far flung regions show no sign of going home and appear dug in for a prolonged stay. 
At the far end of the encampment, a commandeered militia water canon truck serves as a gigantic trophy (and makeshift barricade) for the people's victory over government forces. The conventional thinking is that the protest movement will stay well after the scheduled May 25 presidential elections -- longer if they go into a second, run-off round.
While the passion and commitment of this open display of raw people power is impressive, there are those, including retailers and city center residents, who would like to see the protest site shrunk to a few small blocks. 
One American journalist said derisively last week that the Maidan, with its soot-covered tents, tattered residents, and crude, rusting barricades, resembles a "medieval village." And one nearby resident told me that she and others are fed up with the traffic snarls caused by the sprawling encampment. 
But there is more to Maidan than just the physical presence of tents and hardened protesters.
It has served as a stage to mint new popular leaders -- such as Volodymyr Parasiuk, 26, a student activist from Lviv who stood up on the Maidan stage on Feb 21 and threatened Yanukovych with an armed overthrow. It was also the very same stage taken briefly by former prime minister and presidential candidate Yulia Tymoshenko on February 22, shortly after her release from prison -- a humiliating appearance which showed how terribly out of sync she had fallen with the street after three years behind bars.
Olga Bogomolets, a volunteer doctor (and also presidential candidate) who treated many injured protesters on February 20, suggested Thursday that the Maidan is one huge, open-air crime scene and that international forensic experts have yet to make an appearance to collect evidence. In fact one of the most popular displays is a collection of organ-piercing bullets, grenade shells and other lethal projectiles fired at protesters by the now-disbanded Berkut forces in February.
Another face of Maidan, the immensely popular Eurovision star Ruslana, insists that the protest site must stay put as a kind of check and balance on the new interim government -- and as a psychological barricade to Russian President Vladimir Putin. "I believe that even today that same Maidan has a critical role to play in stopping Putin. While Maidan still exists, nothing will work out for Putin."
There's little doubt that Maidan represents the voice of the Ukrainian street: after the excesses of the Yanukovych government and the failed promises of the administration of the pro-Western Viktor Yuschenko, public trust in public officials is at an all-time low. Markian Melnyk, a protester from a small town near Kiev, says he has been at Maidan since January after unidentified men took away his credit union business.
Until the people have had a chance to vote in a new president, many protest leaders will continue to see themselves as the guardians of the people, almost to the point that they have veto power over major decisions. Hence there is believed to be a large arms cache on site -- most arms hidden away but some proudly worn by self-appointed self-defense forces who man the various entrances to the Maidan.
The huge stage has become a forum for leaders to swing out at bad decisions, or simply to take swipes at Putin for his brazen land grab of Crimea. When there are no speakers, a giant screen streams live sessions of the Parliament or the newly-found independent TV channels that themselves symbolize the post-Yanukovych era.
It is not a stretch in the least to say that there's probably no one more eager to see Maidan disappear than Putin, whose pliant media machine has painted the movement as nothing more than right-wing Banderites, fascists and terrorists. 
That's probably why the protest leaders have been so careful to protect the semblance of order from provocateurs or stop any violent outbreaks. Sadly, Maidan could figure into Putin's twisted logic for moving his armed forces as far inland as Kiev should he decide to invade more of Ukraine.
White House: Putin, Obama discuss possible 'diplomatic solution' in Ukraine
Russian President Vladimir Putin phoned his U.S. counterpart, Barack Obama, on Friday to discuss the tenuous situation in Ukraine -- the latest exchange between two leaders who have been at loggerheads about what's happened and what should happen next.
According to the White House, Putin called to talk about an American proposal "for a diplomatic resolution to the crisis" and the two presidents agreed that their respective top diplomats "would meet to discuss next steps."
The back-and-forth also gave Obama the opportunity to express, as he's done repeatedly in recent week, his opposition to what he described as Russia's taking over of Crimea, which just a few weeks ago was part of Ukraine. He also raised concerns about a reported massing of Russian troops near the border, which has raised fear of further incursions.
"President Obama made clear that this remains possible only if Russia pulls back its troops and does not take any steps to further violate Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty," the White House said.
The phone call came on the same day an interview aired in which Obama said Russia could ease tensions with Ukraine if it moved its troops back and begin direct talks with the Kiev government
"You've seen a range of troops massing along that border under the guise of military exercises, but these are not what Russia would normally be doing," the President said in the CBS News interview. "It may simply be an effort to intimidate Ukraine, or it may be that they've got additional plans.
"And, in either case, what we need right now to resolve and de-escalate the situation would be for Russia to move back those troops and to begin negotiations directly with the Ukrainian government as well as the international community."
Russia may have 40,000 troops near its border with Ukraine, two U.S. officials told CNN on Thursday. The officials said that this estimate was largely based on satellite imagery and that a firm number is difficult to assess.
However, a spokesman for Ukraine's Council of National Security and Defense, Yarema Dukh, told CNN his government estimates 88,000 Russian troops are at the Ukrainian border.
U.S. officials said they believe the higher estimates may reflect Russian troops on alert farther to the east.
Russia has said its troops are carrying out snap military exercises in the region.
Also Friday, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon reported on his talks with Putin and Ukraine leaders, saying he asked Putin if any military action was about to happen.
"This is what the President Putin told me: That he had no intention to make any military move," Ki-moon said. "I should also tell you that, at the same time, President Putin also expressed his concern about some extreme radical elements and as such along the borderline."
"At this time of heightened attention, even small sparks can ignite larger flames of unintended consequences," he said.
Obama said he believes Putin still harbors a grievance over the 1991 dissolution of the Soviet Union. "You would have thought that, after a couple of decades, there'd be an awareness on the part of any Russian leader that the path forward is not to revert back to the kinds of practices that were so prevalent during the Cold War."
Instead, he said, Putin should be moving toward further integration with the world economy.
Obama said that Putin has described the breakup of the Soviet Union as tragic, and that he may feel that the West has taken advantage of Russia.
"He may be entirely misreading the West," Obama said. "He's certainly misreading American foreign policy. We have no interest in encircling Russia, and we have no interest in Ukraine -- beyond letting the Ukrainian people make their own decisions about their own lives."
He rejected the notion that Russia's concerns over maintaining its influence along its borders might justify its invasion of other countries.
"Certainly, they're going to have influence -- because of trade and tradition and language and heritage -- with Ukraine," he said. "But there's a difference between that and sending in troops and, because you're bigger and stronger, taking a piece of the country. That is not how international law and international norms are observed in the 21st century."
Obama's comments were broadcast as Russia dismissed a U.N. General Assembly resolution that branded Crimea's secession referendum invalid, calling it "counterproductive."
The Russian Foreign Ministry said the U.N. vote -- which followed Moscow's annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region last week on the basis of the hastily called referendum -- would do nothing to help resolve the situation.
"The counterproductive initiative with the General Assembly's resolution only complicates efforts to stabilize the internal political crisis in Ukraine," the ministry said in a statement.
The U.N. vote, held Thursday, saw 100 countries back the nonbinding resolution, with 11 opposed and 58 abstaining.
Russia's actions in Ukraine have been widely condemned by the West and prompted concern in Kiev and other former Soviet states that further incursions may follow.
On Friday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told reporters in Moscow, "I hope that the situation will be accepted with a sense of reality by our European neighbors."
Also in Moscow, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said that Ukrainian troops in Crimea who had chosen to remain in the Ukrainian Armed Forces had withdrawn. "The change in state symbols on all ships and in all divisions that have sided with the Russian army has been completed," he said. 
A spokesman for the Ukrainian Defense Ministry in Crimea, Vladislav Seleznev, said military personnel and their families from a number of military bases were expected to depart Saturday for inland Ukraine.
Putin said that events had demonstrated that Russian forces were prepared. "The recent events in Crimea were a serious test," the Russian President said at a ceremony marking military promotions, according to the Russian news agency Interfax. "They demonstrated both the completely new capabilities of our Armed Forces and the high morale of the personnel."
On Friday, Ukraine's ousted President Viktor Yanukovych stepped into the fray with a call for Ukrainians to demand a referendum on the future status of each region in the country, according to Russian state news agency ITAR-Tass.
"As the President whose thoughts and heart are together with you, I call on each reasonable citizen of Ukraine -- don't let the imposters use you! Demand a referendum on the determination of the status of each region within Ukraine," Yanukovych said in an address to the Ukrainian people.
He said that a referendum for all the regions was the only way to stabilize the country, and that early presidential elections planned for May will be neither fair nor constitutional. 
Yanukovych also said he wished to be removed from his post as chairman of the Party of the Regions.
Yanukovych resurfaced in Russia days after leaving Ukraine amid bloody street protests in February against his decision to turn away from a European Union trade deal in favor of closer ties with Moscow.
He and Russia say he is still the legitimate leader of Ukraine, but the West disagrees. The interim government in Kiev was voted in by a large majority in parliament, including members of Yanukovych's own party.
Russia seized control of Crimea amid the political upheaval that followed Yanukovych's ouster -- a step cemented by the controversial referendum and a new treaty that absorbed the Black Sea peninsula into the Russian Federation. 
Now, observers in the West fear Moscow may make incursions into eastern Ukraine, where there are strong ties to Russia, despite the threat of deeper EU and U.S. sanctions.
In another development Thursday, former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, who was released from prison last month, said she intends to run for president in elections on May 25.
After more than two years in prison, she was released in February after the ouster of her archrival, Yanukovych.
Tymoshenko said she intended to ask delegates at her Batkivshchyna Party congress on Saturday to nominate her as a presidential candidate.
Ukraine's elections are taking place against a backdrop of poor economic conditions, Moscow's annexation of Crimea and rumblings of discontent in the mainly Russian-speaking eastern regions.
Tymoshenko's announcement came as the International Monetary Fund announced a $14 billion to $18 billion bailout for Ukraine to avoid bankruptcy. The bailout is tied to painful reforms as the country faces an escalating standoff with Russia.
Ukraine Foreign Minister Oleksandr Shlapak said he was expecting the first transfer to be in the amount of $3 billion, though he did not say when.
Obama on Thursday praised the loan agreement between the IMF and Ukraine, and said the United States will do its part to help. 
The U.S. Senate on Thursday approved $1 billion in loan guarantees for Ukraine, along with sanctions against Russia for its intervention in Ukraine. 
Earlier this month, the House of Representatives approved Ukraine loan guarantees and is now voting on sanctions.
A large majority of Crimeans voted in favor of leaving Ukraine for Russia in the referendum held 12 days ago. It was dismissed by the interim government in Kiev and the West as illegitimate.
The Black Sea peninsula, which has a majority ethnic Russian population, was part of Russia until 1954 and has long historical and cultural ties to the country. 
They know Russian tanks would make short work of their ramshackle defenses and shallow trenches. But with U.S. and Europe shrinking from the fight, this rag-tag band of civilian volunteers know they could be the first, last and only line of defense if Moscow rolls into this corner of northeast Ukraine. 
"We can't expect help from anybody else. Our own government is too passive. But hopefully we can rely on support from ordinary Ukrainians," Vladimir Fedorok told CNN on a blustery morning close to the Ukrainian border village of Senkivka.  
In more peaceful times, Fedorok runs a farm supplies company. Now, with Russia estimated to be massing up to 88,000 troops just across the border from Ukraine's eastern frontier, he finds himself marshaling a newly formed self-defense committee. They're setting up an outpost along the highway that cuts from the Ukrainian-Russian border to the Ukraine's interior. 
He and his closest aides, Younis and Olec, are clad in British Army-issue uniforms from the Iraq "Desert Storm" campaign. They still bear the Union Jack insignia on the left sleeve. 
"We picked them up at the bazaar. I've no idea how they got there. Including my boots, I paid around 100 euros," Fedorok said. Other members of his self-defense unit are sporting surplus combat jackets and pants from other European militaries. 
All of the volunteers say they have some army training from time spent doing military service. Fedorok said they've also been getting refresher courses from friendly Ukrainian army officers in recent days. Two members of the group claim -- like an unspecified number of other Ukrainian nationalists -- to have fought alongside Muslim insurgents against the Russians in Chechnya.
But if the Russians roll into eastern Ukraine, it will be very different from the house-to-house urban combat that has previously taken place in the Chechen capital of Grozny.  
This region is home to sweeping expanses of farmland and scattered forests, classic terrain for a tank war -- the kind of scenario both Soviet and NATO forces drilled for during the Cold War years. 
Fedorok and his patriots have encircled their dilapidated outpost with piles of old car tires. The plan: If the Russians stream down the highway en route to the district capital Chernigov, they'll burn rubber and set up a smokescreen. 
They say they have no real weapons, but this band of brothers has made up a stash of Molotov cocktails, with rags stuffed into old vodka bottles. The few yards of trenches that stretch into a nearby tree line are only a fallback position, and hardly constitute a sturdy defensive line. 
"As much as anything else, we're put here making a political point. We know this outpost is only an effort to slow down the Russians," Fedorok said matter-of-factly. 
"I shouldn't be telling you this but our plan is to break down into five-man units and we will launch a guerrilla-style partisan war against the Russians," he added, declining to specify how many volunteers he has under his command. 
But these paramilitary militias may not be entirely alone. Fedorok drives a few kilometers up the highway closer to the border to introduce us to a detachment of Ukrainian soldiers. 
For now, they're coordinating operations. A fresh-faced army major with a Russian-made AK-74S assault rifle slung over his shoulder told us his men are on high alert. 
"These are military times," he said as he showed us a little of his hardware: three armored personnel carriers mounted with heavy-machine guns, dug into the earth and camouflaged with branches from birch trees. 
A few yards away stood a Russian-made T-80 tank. The major said there were more tanks half buried behind berms in the forest.
All the vehicles are pointing toward a bridge. The major, who declined to give his name, said the order was to defend the bridge or blow it up if the Russians advanced across the border. 
But unlike the civilian self-defense militias, these soldiers seem a little unsure when I asked whether they would really stand and battle the Russians. 
In Ukraine's Crimea region, the Ukrainian army confined itself to barracks or surrendered. Earlier this week, the Defense Ministry in Kiev said a full 75 percent of its force in Crimea either defected or simply went AWOL when the Russians moved in. 
Here at the eastern border, the major in charge of this armored detachment shook his head slowly. 
"I prefer to say that we are not pointing our tanks at the Russians but merely looking toward our brothers in case they advance in friendship," he said. The major said he could scarcely believe he was on high alert to battle troops from Moscow. 
"We trained in the same military academies during Soviet times and after that. We see them as our brothers," he said. 
The Pentagon's latest figures put the number of Russian troops massing just over the border at about 40,000. The Ukrainian government's National Defense and Security Council estimates the figure at 88,000, but that estimate may include units a little farther from the border region that could be deployed as a second wave in the event of an invasion. 
Moscow has insisted it is only carrying out drills. And in televised comments Saturday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov insisted his forces had no intention of crossing into Ukraine. 
However, in a telephone conversation with President Barack Obama Friday night, Russian President Vladimir Putin once again reportedly raised concerns about ethnic Russians living in eastern Ukraine.  
He suggested Ukrainian ultra-nationalists had been threatening ethnic Russians and driving them out of their homes and businesses -- the same accusations that Moscow used as a pretext to intervene in Crimea. 
Standing tall and surveying his trench lines, self-defense commander Fedorok was in no mood to listen to any assurances from Moscow. 
