Pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong that began Monday with students boycotting classes and demanding less involvement of China's Communist Party in Hong Kong's future continued Sunday and are growing into a wider movement. 
Organizers said some 60,000 protesters turned out for a Saturday night rally and police tried to block them from joining other protesters that are part of a sit-in outside government headquarters. 
They're protesting  new election rules issued by the Chinese government in August that say candidates for the top posts in Hong Kong must be selected by a committee perceived to serve the Chinese Communist Party. 
The students want to pressure China into giving Hong Kong full voting rights and the ability to choose candidates independent of Beijing.
Some protesters wore rain jackets, goggles and umbrellas in anticipation of the police's use of pepper spray as tension rose following more than 70 arrests of student activists. 
Organizers  said they would continue to occupy the area outside government headquarters indefinitely until the students are released. They want to speak directly to Hong Kong's leader, Chief Executive C.Y. Leung.
Hong Kong authorities said 34 people had been treated in hospital for injuries suffered in the protests. 
Those arrested include 17-year-old protest leader Joshua Wong, whose parents issued a statement saying that their son's lawyer "can see no legal justification for this continued detention given the nature of the allegations, his young age and his clean record."
Grace and Roger Wong said they can only conclude that their son is being detained for political reasons and call his arrest " political persecution."
According to protest organizers, police spent two hours searching Wong's dorm room Saturday. They confiscated his computer, two SD cards, his phone and a thumb drive, they said. 
Amnesty International issued a statement Sunday calling for the release of the activists and condemned violence against protesters Friday night, when police used pepper spray. 
A government statement issued this week urged teachers and parents not to let minors take part in the rallies, saying their future opportunities could be affected. 
Teachers were also warned that if they are convicted "as a result of participating in unlawful activities, they will have to bear their legal responsibilities as well as professional- and career-related consequences."
Leaders of Hong Kong's Occupy Central movement, which had planned  a separate mass protest in the city's financial district over voting rights, decided Sunday to join the student movement.  
Co-founder Benny Tai said he would stay with the students until the last minute and was prepared to be arrested.
Since the handover from Britain to China 17 years ago, the people of Hong Kong have been granted a wide range of civil liberties and a measure of autonomy under the governing principle known as "one country, two systems."
But many believe that way of life is under threat as Beijing affirms its political authority over Hong Kong.
Although most are not old enough to drive in the former British colony, the students' political vision is clear.
"I can't change Hong Kong, but if all of us are here ... we may change Hong Kong's future."
The Hong Kong government said Monday that riot police have pulled back from pro-democracy demonstrations around the city that have caused widespread disruption in one of Asia's financial hubs. 
Defiant demonstrators remained on the streets of Hong Kong's financial center, blocking traffic on key highways a day after clashes with police that left more than 40 people injured.
Explaining the decision to withdraw the riot police, the government said in a statement that the protesters on the streets were now behaving peacefully. But protesters have pointed out that the unrest Sunday resulted from heavy-handed police tactics.
Riot police remained on guard on the sidelines of the main protest area near the government headquarters, although not in large numbers.
The government urged the demonstrators to disperse to allow emergency vehicles, public transport and other traffic to pass. Its statement followed calls from some protest organizers for people to return home. 
But with thousands of demonstrators continuing to jam streets in key financial and commercial districts, it appeared unlikely that the extraordinary protest movement would end anytime soon.
The demonstrations, which authorities have intermittently attempted to disperse by force, follow a week of student-led boycotts and protests against what many see as the encroachment of China's political will on Hong Kong's governance. 
The protesters were responding to China's decision to allow only Beijing-vetted candidates to stand in the city's elections for chief executive, Hong Kong's top civil position. 
One student group, fearing police might use rubber bullets, asked late Sunday for demonstrators to leave. But while the mood at the primary protest calmed, there was no large exodus. 
Not all protest leaders were calling for people to leave. Pro-democracy activist and lawmaker Leung Kwok-hung, known by many as "Long Hair," cheered on those who were staying.
"Our demands have not changed. This is a peaceful civil disobedience protest," he called out over a loudspeaker as midnight approached.
Cardinal Joseph Zen, the former Catholic Bishop of Hong Kong and a leader of Occupy Central, was one of the organizers who called for demonstrators to disperse.
"Please go home, don't sacrifice your lives," he said to the protesters. Dialogue is impossible at this point, he told them.
At least 41 people have been injured and taken to hospitals, the Hong Kong Information Services Department said Monday. A spokesman gave no details on the extent of the injuries. The department earlier said six police officers were injured, but it was unclear whether they were included in the 41 figure.
Several of the young people occupying the business district told CNN they were going to stay overnight. 
The student-led protests, which were joined Sunday by the like-minded Occupy Central movement, have sought to occupy government property and shut down the business district. 
In an early morning video statement addressed to all Hong Kong residents, Hong Kong Chief Executive C.Y. Leung called for people to leave. He said police have exercised the greatest possible restraint in dealing with the protesters.
Riot police have occasionally wielded batons against protesters. They have also used pepper spray, and tear gas has been deployed against more than one group of protesters around the Central Government Offices. There were more reports of tear gas early Monday.
Protesters wore goggles or masks and raincoats, and many held umbrellas to protect against the possible use of pepper spray.
Early Monday, dozens of protesters moved barricades to block a main thoroughfare.
There is an "optimal amount of police officers dispersed" around the scene, a Hong Kong police spokesperson told CNN. 
Police said they have arrested 78 people, ranging in age from 16 to 58, including some leaders. 
Yvonne Leung, the spokeswoman for the Hong Kong Federation of Students, which organized the protest, said high school student protest leader Joshua Wong was released Sunday.
The group later tweeted that Alex Chow and Lester Shum, who were arrested Saturday, also had been released.
In a statement Sunday evening, Yvonne Leung said the protesters called for C.Y. Leung and three other politicians working on political reform to resign. If the demand, and three others, go unmet, the students vowed to step up their protests and will boycott school.
The previous week had seen days of action, as university and high school students came out in droves to rally against what they believe is the Chinese central government's reneging on key promises for Hong Kong's political future. 
C.Y. Leung said at a news conference Sunday afternoon that a round of consultations on electoral reform will take place "shortly" but went on to appeal to pro-democracy activists to engage in rational discussions through lawful means.
 He reaffirmed that the government in Hong Kong will uphold Beijing's decision.
The Chinese central government said that it is "confident" that the Hong Kong government can handle the movement lawfully, according to a report in Chinese state media. The Chinese government opposes all illegal activities that "could undermine rule of law and jeopardize 'social tranquility,'" the report says.<U+200B>
The protest movement developed into a much larger, more inclusive display of defiance as the Occupy Central movement joined the students' rally early Sunday. 
The pro-democracy advocacy group, which is not affiliated with the broader anti-capitalist Occupy movement, has been vowing to lead a campaign of civil disobedience in the face of China's decision to control what candidates can run for Hong Kong's top office.
"Occupy Central has formally begun," said a statement by the group. "The two nights of occupation of Civic Square in Admiralty have completely embodied the awakening of Hong Kong people's desire to decide their own lives.
"The courage of the students and members of the public in their spontaneous decision to stay has touched many Hong Kong people. Yet, the government has remained unmoved. As the wheel of time has reached this point, we have decided to arise and act."
C.Y. Leung told CNN that fears that the nominating process for the 2017 election were too restrictive were "unfounded."
"We have not even started to discuss the detailed but crucial aspects of the nominating process for potential chief executive candidates," he wrote in an exclusive commentary.
"This will be the subject of a public consultation to be launched soon and which will eventually lead to the enabling legislation on changes to the electoral method for the 2017 election."
Many in the city, which under British rule enjoyed considerable political freedom, fear a rollback of the city's political autonomy, agreed between Britain and China under the Basic Law. The Basic Law, which serves as a de facto constitution, was written in the lead-up to the 1997 handover of sovereignty. 
Hong Kong, as anyone who has lived or worked in the city knows, is simultaneously China, and not China. 
The complex legal framework that was put in place when the city reverted to Chinese rule in 1997 makes it a unique case, and one which means that the delineations between the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) and the mainland are rarely straightforward. 
The differences between the two provide a wealth of reasons why they are often at loggerheads -- and no more so than now, with tens of thousands of Hong Kongers taking to the streets to protest what they see as Beijing's undue encroachment into Hong Kong's civil affairs and political structure. 
Certainly Hong Kong's unique history has set it apart. While the former colony was returned to Chinese sovereignty, the British colonial legacy has endured, and with it a set of institutions and historical, cultural, economic, legal and lifestyle differences. 
Compared with China throughout much of the city's modern history, Hong Kong has been a bastion of peace, prosperity and, in the 1960s and 70s, a haven from the horrors of the Cultural Revolution. The city has welcomed refugees from across China, notably Shanghai, since the civil war and the rise of the Communist party in 1949.  
Indeed, Chinese migrants to the port city provided the pool of skilled and unskilled labor that made Hong Kong the manufacturing hub that it once was, setting it on the path to economic success.
When a British landing party planted their flag at Possession Point on Hong Kong island over 170 years ago, they set in motion one of the most complex political relationships to endure to the present day. 
While the island of Hong Kong was ceded in perpetuity following the first Opium War, the bulk of Hong Kong's landmass, the Kowloon peninsula and the New Territories, were leased from China. When the New Territories' lease was due to expire, in 1997, it was decided that the former colony would be returned, in its entirety, to China. 
Since then the city has endured a "brain drain" in the 1980s and the early 90s, after Britain and China had agreed the handover of sovereignty, and particularly when the Tiananmen crackdowns in 1989 were fresh in the memories of those Hong Kongers who could find their way out.  
There are some who fear that clampdowns on civil liberties might mean the city could soon face another exodus: "I'm worried that people might migrate again," Michael Davis, a law professor at Hong Kong University, told CNN's Andrew Stevens.. "That would be a disaster."
Hong Kong's defacto constitution, the Basic Law, states that Hong Kong will co-exist with China as "one country, two systems" for 50 years after the handover of power in 1997.
Due to expire in 2047, it states that the city "shall safeguard the rights and freedoms of the residents."
One of the tenets contained in the Basic Law, and reaffirmed by Lu Ping, China's then-top official on Hong Kong, was the right to develop its own democracy. "How Hong Kong develops its democracy in the future is completely within the sphere of the autonomy of Hong Kong," Lu was quoted as saying in the state media People's Daily in March 1993. "The central government will not interfere."
Beijing, however, has repeatedly reinterpreted the document, and in June of this year released a White Paper reaffirming its "complete jurisdiction" over Hong Kong.  
While the city enjoys many more legal freedoms than China -- including, crucially, the right to assembly -- this can be a brickbat for pro-Beijing voices. 
"The stability of Hong Kong is crucial," Victor Gao, director of the China National Association of International Studies told CNN from Beijing.  "There are better channels for people in Hong Kong to express their positions, rather than resorting to illegal means of creating disturbances and counterproductive means of preventing other people... to go along with their lives."
It is hard to foster a sense of togetherness after almost two centuries of being separate. Linguistically -- Cantonese is the common tongue here -- socially and culturally, Hong Kong and the mainland can seem worlds apart.  
Sometimes the differences are seemingly minor; one prominent, telling example is of a video, shared on social media, of an altercation over a mainland tourist eating noodles on the MTR, Hong Kong's pristine subway system. But even what appear to be surface differences can explode, and videos like this often go viral here, highlighting the differences between locals and their mainland cousins. 
Much of the frustration is borne of the impact mainland visitors have in Hong Kong -- crowding locals out of everywhere from maternity wards to high end boutiques, and pricing them out of the housing market. Around the time of the MTR incident, a crowdsourced newspaper ad warned against an "invasion" of "locusts" -- mainlanders who would figuratively devour everything in their path. 
For those across the border in the mainland, the perception of Hong Kongers ranges from admiration to a feeling of contempt: Following the media storm that followed the MTR noodle-eating incident, a prominent Chinese academic, Peking University professor Kong Qingdong, called Hong Kongers "bastards" and imperialist "running dogs." 
Every six months since the handover in 1997, Hong Kong University has surveyed a sample of Hong Kong residents to gauge feelings of identity in the city. The last poll was conducted in June, when over 40% of those questioned said they identified as a "Hong Konger," rather than "Chinese" (amongst other options), a percentage that has crept up in the past 17 years. 
"The protesters are unhappy because Hong Kong is becoming more and more like China," Chinese tourist, 24-year old Liujing, from Hainan, told CNN at spillover protests in the Mong Kok region of Kowloon. "I support them because growing up, we always admired Hong Kong. If Hong Kong became like China then that would be a real shame."
"In the mainland, first of all, we would never hear about something like this because of censorship. In the mainland, this protest would be forcibly dispersed within two hours," she said. "Here it's different. I don't think police will open fire because Hong Kong is a safe place."
Hong Kong is rightfully proud of the near-universal respect of the rule of law. For many, it is what sets Hong Kong apart from the mainland and its reputation for honesty is one of the reasons that so many multinationals have based their regional headquarters in the city.
The police generally have the trust of the population -- although how this trust will be affected by the events of the past few days remains to be seen.
It wasn't always thus; until the creation of the Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC), a nongovernmental watchdog in the 1960s, graft was as much of a problem here as it is in China. 
Hong Kong retains a legal system which closely mirrors the British one, another holdover from the colonial era, but one which prizes transparency and due process and is largely welcomed by the populace.
The ruling Communist Party controls all aspects of China's judicial process. However, the Basic Law, guarantees the independence of the SAR's judiciary.
Hong Kong maintains its own currency (which is pegged to the U.S. dollar) and the city's "capitalist" system is also enshrined in the Basic Law. 
China's oft-touted economic miracle is, at least in part, traceable to Hong Kong's influence. Not only was the presence of the city's free market a huge influence on the economic reforms of the late 1970s and 80s, but investment in the mainland from Hong Kong tops that from everywhere else combined.
The rest of China has benefited greatly from Hong Kong's "investment, energy and entrepreneurship," Hong Kong University's Michael Davis, says. 
However, as China's economic clout grows, so does Hong Kong's dependence on it. As a logistics center and the world's "gateway to China" the city relies heavily on re-export of Chinese manufacturing, and inwards tourism and retail demand from the mainland is a significant earner for Hong Kong. 
The mainland's promotion of its own cities as rivals to Hong Kong -- Shanghai as a free trade and financial hub, for example -- could further complicate the relationship between Hong Kong and China. 
News articles, social media posts and images about Hong Kong's pro-democracy protests are being heavily censored behind China notorious firewall. 
Chinese state-run news outlets have largely ignored the pro-democracy protests except for the same Xinhua story in which the Hong Kong chief executive CY Leung denounced the demonstrations as "unlawful."
In Hong Kong, residents have poured into the streets to defy Beijing's vision for its political future in the midst of its longest series of political protests since the 1997 handover. Their goal is to pressure China into giving the former British colony full universal suffrage. Dozens have been reported injured by authorities. 
On the social media front, Instagram has been blocked in China since Sunday. Users cannot view images and a message reads on the site: "Can't refresh feed."
China observers noted that while the app can't be accessed in China for most, the country's First Lady Peng Liyuan's official Instagram account posted a picture of her and her husband, China's President Xi Jinping, on Monday. 
The photo app has been viewed as a relatively non-political social media platform, said King-wa Fu, an assistant professor at the University of Hong Kong.
"In the past two days, we can see a lot of people holding phones and taking pictures of different (Hong Kong protest) scenes on Instagram, Facebook and sharing it around," he said. "It's a huge amount of pictures posted in a short period of time." 
The Chinese government maintains strict controls over what can be seen on the Internet and social media. This firewall extends to Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, and Google is rarely accessible. Hong Kong does not fall under the same restrictions. 
China's massively popular microblogging site, Sina Weibo is being censored at the highest rate this year with "Hong Kong" as the most commonly deleted term, according to Weiboscope, a Hong Kong University effort that monitors deleted posts. About 152 out of 10,000 Weibo posts were blocked, said Fu, who also works on Weiboscope.
Photos of police confronting young pro-democracy protesters are sensitive in China, because it's a reminder of Tiananamen Square, in which Chinese authorities cracked down on student protesters on June 4, 1989, Fu said. 
"If you look at the political agenda of protests in Hong Kong, they have the same objectives. They're calling for democracy in Hong Kong and political reform. These are two main sensitive topics in China. This is the topic they don't want the Chinese citizens to widely discuss," he said.
But China cannot completely black out any knowledge of the Hong Kong protests, especially with 40 million mainland arrivals to the special administrative region every year. 
Chinese authorities cannot control whether its citizens know about pro-democracy Hong Kong protests, but they can shut down "autonomous communication space" where public discussions can take place in China, said Xiao Qiang, an adjunct professor for the School of Information at the University of California at Berkeley. 
"The Chinese government fears that the kinds of protest and exercise of rights demanding greater political freedom will be contagious and trigger something in China," he said. "That's what they fear the most."
The protest intensified Sunday when Hong Kong police unleashed tear gas on demonstrators. But there was no mention of it on the evening Chinese state-run CCTV news. 
On Monday morning, the homepage of China's major portals such as Sina, Sohu, 163 and China's state-run news agency Xinhua did not mention the events either. 
Searches on China's top search engine sites such as Baidu and Sogou for the terms "Hong Kong protest" or even "Hong Kong students" yielded irrelevant results such as stories showing a a blissful image of Hong Kong residents picnicking on the grass or how Hong Kong is welcoming tourists from the mainland during the national holiday week. 
When relevant results appeared on the Chinese search engines, the articles contained a distinctively pro-China slant and even surfaced a month-old article about a small pro-Beijing counter-protest in Hong Kong. 
Content that was more sympathetic to Hong Kong protesters had been removed with messages reading: "In accordance with relevant laws, regulations and policies, search results could not be displayed."
On a promenade that runs along Hong Kong's harbor, crowds of tourists jostle for their chance to photograph the city's spectacular skyline.
But long after most have retired to their hotel rooms, one small group of visitors remains. 
The four men, who came from India in search of a better life, say they have been sleeping in the alcove of a building in Hong Kong's Tsim Sha Tsui district for almost two months as they wait for their asylum claim to be processed.
"Lots of refugees in Hong Kong live in the same conditions," says Mohammadi Rahman, chairman of Refugee Union, a group that advocates for asylum seekers' rights and helps them to find suitable housing in Hong Kong as they wait to learn their fate.
It's a feeling that Rahman, 30, knows well. When he arrived in Hong Kong in 2007, he, too, was homeless and slept on the streets for months.
For almost eight years, he has been battling what many see as the government's indifference to the plight of refugees. 
Frustrated by his own struggle against Hong Kong's immigration system after fleeing Afghanistan, he has become a champion for the rights of some of the city's most vulnerable inhabitants.
When he was just five years old Rahman fled with his family to Iran after one of his brothers was shot dead during the country's civil war.
He worked as an engineer and made enough money to help support his parents, along with his four sisters and three brothers.
But he wasn't safe in Iran either, for reasons he won't disclose for fear of putting his family in danger. "The government wanted me dead," he said. If he returns, he believes he will be incarcerated, tortured, or worse.
In 2011, after more than three years in Hong Kong, the United Nations recognized Rahman as a refugee. Since then he has been waiting for the organization to find a third country that will take him in.
Around 6,000 people are currently seeking asylum in Hong Kong according to the territory's Immigration Department. Refugees cannot work legally, which makes them dependent on the city's welfare system. The lucky few whose claims are successful are resettled to another country. As Rahman can attest it is an agonizing process that can take years.
"As long as you don't have a right to work, you don't have anything to live on," says Rahman. "You don't have any future. You can't build your family's future, your kids' future."
Authorities provide food parcels three times a month and a rental allowance, but some asylum seekers say the assistance is not enough to cover even their most basic needs.
In January this year, Rahman and several dozen others like him founded the Refugee Union. The group advocates for the rights of asylum seekers, gives advice and legal assistance and helps people find accommodation.
"We created the Refugee Union to fight ... against the system with more power," he said.
"We have to fight together, because whatever I fight, another refugee is fighting for the same thing -- they suffer from the same thing."
In recent months, the group has held peaceful demonstrations in the heart of Hong Kong's business district to raise awareness of their concerns and put pressure on authorities.
"Most of the refugees are afraid to complain, because they think if they complain, immigration will process their application faster and will reject them, (or) will cut their welfare allowance," Rahman said.<U+00A0>
Since Refugee Union began its campaign, the government has increased asylum seekers' food and rent allowance, and given them additional funds for transportation, electricity and water. 
Rahman says that the total assistance they receive still falls below the city's poverty line.
"The Refugee Union completely changed the asylum arena by coordinating individual protests into group action," says Cosmo Beatson, executive director of Vision First, an NGO that is giving the group advice and logistical support.
"The goal is to empower refugees to speak up for themselves, support each other in solidarity and advocate for the changes that they desperately need because obviously collective bargaining beats solo endeavors."
In Hong Kong, Rahman lives with his wife in a cramped, one-room apartment that costs HK$2,800 ($360) per month. She earns HK$4,000 ($520) a month working as a domestic helper for a local family, but sends a large portion of her income back to her family in the Philippines.
Every day, Rahman reads a sign that his wife has placed near their bed: "Life is not about waiting for the storm to pass, but about learning how to dance in the rain."
He hopes one day to leave Hong Kong and start a new life. Until then, he is determined to help reform the city's welfare system so that other asylum seekers aren't forced to live "like beggars."
"Even though I cannot do work ... it is better for me to give my time for them, to help them to improve their situation in Hong Kong," he said.
Hong Kong is in the midst of its longest series of political protests since the 1997 handover.
Pro-democracy activists say they are making good on a long-threatened vow to try and paralyze the city's financial district -- a key business hub for the region and beyond -- through sit-ins and civil disobedience. 
Clashes between students and police this weekend have been the most heated in a long summer of anti-Beijing protests. Dozens have been reported injured by authorities. 
Their goal is to pressure China into giving the former British colony full universal suffrage. 
Beijing has so far refused to cede ground on its stance, setting the scene for growing, and more intense, clashes.
Here are five things to know about Hong Kong as political tensions ratchet up:
A city of towering skyscrapers on China's southeastern tip, Hong Kong is home to 7 million people.
When the city was returned to China in 1997 a deal was struck promising "a high degree of autonomy" to Hong Kong under a formula dubbed "One Country, Two Systems."
The city's Basic Law or "mini-constitution" has allowed the city to carry on with its own legal and financial system and Hong Kong enjoys civil liberties unseen in mainland China such as an independent judiciary, freedom of the press and the right to protest.
It also states that "universal suffrage" is the ultimate aim for Hong Kong but it does not give a timetable or detail how political reform should take shape.
Currently, Hong Kong's leader, known as the chief executive, is elected by a 1,200-strong committee stacked with Beijing loyalists. 
Surveys show that the government's approval rating is sinking, while distrust of China's central government in Beijing is at its highest level since the handover.
Discontent, especially among the young, is driven by a widening wealth gap and many resent the influx of free-spending mainland Chinese visitors to the city who buy up everything from apartments to baby milk formula.
A survey released on September 21 said that one in five people were considering emigrating.
The latest wave of protests came after Beijing in August rejected demands for people to freely choose the city's next leader in 2017. 
Pro-democracy groups responded by unleashing threats to disrupt the city's Central financial district -- where many big banks and other businesses are located -- in a campaign known as "Occupy Central." 
Democracy supporters come from a broad cross section of society including students, religious leaders, university professors and financial professionals. 
After months of forewarning, Occupy Central began formally on Sunday, with thousands of protesters, many wearing eye and clothing protection, beginning a sit in around government buildings. Supporters want to force discussions, and even concessions, over Beijing's influence on Hong Kong.
Pro-Beijing groups like "The Silent Majority for Hong Kong" say the activists will "endanger Hong Kong" and create chaos.
They have held their own rallies against Occupy Central and ran advertising campaigns in local media to highlight their fears.
The biggest rally, on August 17, was attended by thousands, although questions were raised about its legitimacy amid reports that marchers were paid to show up.
Businesses fear that any campaign targeting the city's financial district will harm Hong Kong's reputation as a safe and stable place to do business.
An opinion poll conducted this month by Chinese University said that 46% did not support the Occupy Central campaign, while 31% backed the civil disobedience movement.
Beijing, in a policy document released in June, said that Hong Kong does not enjoy "full autonomy" and residents are "confused or lopsided in their understanding" of "One Country, Two Systems."
The rhetoric indicates that Beijing is unlikely to budge on its prescription for electoral reform in the city.
Li Fei, a senior Chinese official, suggested that screening candidates was necessary to ensure the chief executive "loves China, loves Hong Kong and will safeguard the country's sovereignty, security and development interests."
China has also sought to blame the pro-democracy opposition in Hong Kong on interference by Britain and the United States.
All eyes are on Beijing and how it will respond to the growing waves of protests. The central government is in a tricky situation of not being able to be seen as backing down on its stance but at the same time needing to be wary over the use of force and the implications of doing so.
The Hong Kong government says its people should accept the deal on electoral reform offered by Beijing.
The new framework will allow Hong Kong's 5 million registered voters to select their leader, although candidates must be approved by a committee similar to the one that selected the city's top official in 2012.
Critics say that this means only candidates favored by Beijing will appear on the ballot, but Hong Kong's current chief executive, C.Y. Leung, writing in an op ed for CNN, says that this is not the case.
"We have not even started to discuss the detailed but crucial aspects of the nominating process for potential chief executive candidates," he writes. 
"Raw emotion -- for or against the proposed political reform -- will get us nowhere."
Hong Kong protesters passionate but gullible, says China's 1997 handover negotiator
Despite attempts by the authorities to censor coverage, millions of people across mainland China have watched warily over the past few days as thousands of Hong Kongers have occupied the heart of their city calling for greater democracy.
For many the verve and passion of this student-led revolt has been captivating to witness.  But others are less impressed.
"I think the 'Occupy Central' movement is the Hong Kong version of so-called street politics and color revolutions we've seen in other countries," Chen Zuo'er, who helped facilitate the handover of Hong Kong to China from Britain, told CNN Wednesday, as China marked National Day -- the foundation of the People's Republic of China on October 1, 1949.  
"It has caused great harm to Hong Kong in the past few days. Democracy and the rule of law are the pillars of economic prosperity and social stability in Hong Kong. 'Occupy Central' has attacked both pillars," he said.
China itself has labeled the demonstrations "illegal." Some analysts claim the protests have been the most significant since the former colony's handover from Britain to China in 1997.
But not everyone in China knows about the occupation of Hong Kong's central districts -- the beating heart of this Asian financial hub. Beijing's censors have been blocking reports, including CNN's, in the mainstream and social media.
But those who know, like Chen, are watching warily, worried that any clashes or incidents between protesters and police -- as we witnessed on Sunday when the authorities resorted to using tear gas -- could lead to bloodshed or trigger a harsh crackdown. 
Chen was posted to the city in 1994 as a member of the preparatory committee for the formation of Hong Kong as a Special Administrative Region (SAR) of China. He was China's point-person in the Sino-British Joint Liaison Group (JLG), in charge of negotiating with British side over the 1997 handover of power. He now heads the Chinese Association of Hong Kong and Macao Studies, a think-tank based in Beijing.
While Chen praised the passion of the young protesters, he questioned whether they'd been misled.
"The passion of Hong Kong's young people is commendable -- they care about current affairs and politics, care about the future of Hong Kong and China," he said. "But they tend to be gullible and excitable as their class boycott and peaceful sit-in became 'Occupy Central.'"
"Some adults -- I mean those with beards and wrinkles -- suddenly show up in front of the youth to tell them what to do, what not to do, what should be done, what should be their goal," he said. 
"We're all shocked. As I've read in Hong Kong media, those adults -- would they let their own children lie on the streets? What are they doing after receiving illegal funding? These are the questions posed by Hong Kong people online that I've read."
Chen declined to give specifics, simply saying "just read what is out there in the Hong Kong media."
Would China would consider sending People's Liberation Army (PLA) troops on to the streets of Hong Kong if the protest persists for a long time?
"The past few days the central government has already stated many times," he answered tangentially. "We believe that the Hong Kong SAR government has the ability to handle well the illegal acts of the Occupation Central. We fully believe so."
The retired vice minister insisted that China's decision to allow "universal suffrage" in the 2017 election is already a significant progress towards democracy.
"If you study the decision by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, you will find it comparable to universal suffrage in many other countries during various periods of time. It's one person, one vote and every vote counts the same. It takes some Western countries 200 years to achieve. But after resuming sovereignty over Hong Kong, it took China only 20 years to achieve this in the Chief Executive election," he said.
But many ordinary Hong Kongers insist they want full universal suffrage, rejecting Beijing's decision to allow only Beijing-vetted candidates to run for the 2017 election for chief executive.
Will China be open to changing the elections system in the future to make it freer?
"I'm not a prophet," he replied. "I think Hong Kong's political system will become fairer, more democratic and more open.
"One country, two systems" is a fundamental national policy. No matter how 'Occupy Central' becomes, it won't change shake this policy. I believe it will be thoroughly implemented into the future."
Meantime, Chen sees no room for China to back down from its stated position.
"I know the plotters of Occupy Central," he said. "They launched this illegal action with the central government as its target. They demand that the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress will rescind its decision on universal suffrage. However, I think that is futile. Impossible."
Many political observers have compared Occupy Central to Tiananmen in 1989, when the Chinese army brutally crushed the six-week-long protest in central Beijing.
Kason, a wiry 23-year-old engineering student, was at the front of around 2,000 young protesters on a highway when he was hit -- but what he remembers most is the way protesters cooperated with one another.
"The word spread like wildfire," recalls Kason, who declined to give his last name.
Within moments, the crowd passed hundreds of umbrellas forward so that the most vulnerable protesters could shield themselves. High above on an overpass, onlookers opened their umbrellas and parachuted them down to waiting hands.
That night, police fired 87 tear gas rounds into the crowds of unarmed students ¡X including Kason, who says protesters stuck together even as explosive blasts of stinging smoke blanketed the streets. Luckily, he wasn't injured.
"We yelled to each other, 'Go slowly, and look after others," he says. "We relied on each other to get out safely."
In a city whose people have often been accused of being self-centered and materialistic, a palpable spirit of mutual aid has captured Hong Kong's democracy movement. 
Shaken and outraged by the police's use of force Sunday, tens -- if not hundreds of thousands of Hong Kongers have organized a movement that has stunned even activist leaders with its sophistication and size.
Coordinating themselves via Facebook, Google spreadsheets, and group messaging apps, citizens have set up a system of first aid stations, supply lines, rest areas, and barricades that now spans five major occupation sites. 
And the umbrella, unarmed students' method of defense against pepper spray and tear gas, has turned into an iconic international symbol of peaceful resistance.
Meanwhile, police have staged a dramatic withdrawal. leaving protests largely undisturbed. As a result, the civil disobedience movement has turned into what feels like a self-governed street utopia.
Early each morning, demonstrators stroll up and down, handing out free buns and drinks to their bleary-eyed companions. As the day progresses, they clean up trash and sing songs.
Newcomers arrive every hour. "Before Sunday, people were numb, hopeless. But after the tear gas, we all came out to support each other," says Kason.
Cindy Chu, a retired 60-year-old nurse, decided to help after she heard students were tear gassed. "I was outraged at how casually the government could hurt young people."
Now, she uses her medical skills to care for protesters, some of them who suffer symptoms of heatstroke after consecutive days of sitting in the humid heat. 
"Democracy means we don't just care about ourselves, but we care about everyone around us," she says. 
A few blocks away, a 54-year-old democracy supporter surnamed Choi is volunteering at his church to provide a resting place, fully stocked with snacks, drinks, air conditioning, and TV for anyone in need ¡X even those on the other side.
"The people who support the government might feel very hurt. We want to pray with them, we want to calm their hearts. 
"Our religion tells us to love our enemy, and we want to respect them even though we have different opinions."
While sitting on an occupied highway on-ramp, a small group of protesters, including Kason, debate whether protesters are getting too relaxed. One, a college student, worries police want protesters to "soften and let their guard down" in order to come in and forcibly evict everyone.
Another, a middle-aged man, says he dislikes how some protesters are hosting barbecues and soccer games ¡X accusing them of making the movement seem unserious.
"Besides, if tear gas hits the barbecue flame, it could be really dangerous," he says.
Kason disagrees, believing the protest ought to be "joyful." But, he points out, these discussions are exactly the sort of thing Hong Kong desperately needs.
"I just met those guys, but I know them better now. We have different ideas, but we're finding a way to accept each other," he says. "Democracy isn't just about voting for our next leader. It's about seeing the equality of others. 
"We're trying to understand each other, and in that process, we're coming to understand ourselves."
Opinion: Hong Kong's 'silent majority' held hostage by 'Umbrella Revolution'
No, I am not referring to the movement colorfully dubbed the "Umbrella Revolution" by the international media.
True, having faced police tear gas and efforts to dislodge them, students and the "Occupy Central" group have captured and are holding parts of Hong Kong -- main thoroughfares in Central, Causeway Bay and Mongkok. And it is escalating.
They are also demanding the resignation of the territory's Chief Executive C.Y. Leung and a back-down from Beijing on their recently announced plans on political reform for 2017.
The revolution I am referring to is that of the silent majority, the nondescript middle-aged and conservatives who prefer change in an orderly fashion -- the segment usually ignored by the media and the "haves" of the society as "aging and not sexy."
You see, while as many as 70,000 students and "Occupy Central" group supporters occupy the streets now, only six weeks ago, 1.5 million Hong Kongers boldly came out from their cocoons to sign their names on a petition to demand peace and reject "Occupy Central."
The campaign was organized by "The Alliance for Peace and Democracy" of which "Silent Majority for Hong Kong," a group I co-founded, is a member.
So are all 1.5 million of us stooges of Beijing? Hardly likely. We are just as diverse and politically divided as any silent majority group in other cities. The only difference is we came out before things turned ugly.
We want peace and democracy -- universal suffrage in 2017 -- but we abhor and reject "Occupy Central" for trying to hold Hong Kong hostage in the fight for its brand of democracy.
We believe political reform should be negotiated and then the people can decide for themselves, conservatives and progressives alike.
After all, the pan-democratic group, which is backing "Occupy Central" to the hilt, is holding the trump card -- it has enough votes to veto any reform packages they deem unacceptable in the Legislative Council.
We believe "Occupy Central" and its vow to paralyze our financial center by occupation and blockages are for real, and it will hurt the middle class and common folks more than the wealthy.
We do not want to be held hostage and be unwilling pawns in a political game, and we do not want the same fate as tens of millions in other parts of the world who suffer financial losses, injuries and even deaths in turmoil brought about by the politically aggressive and adventurous. 
Now that "Occupy Central" has happened, we are feeling the effects of its strangulation. The stock market is down, shops are closed, people's daily lives are disrupted -- and this is just the beginning.
Some say it is a small price to pay for "true democracy" ¡X so why don't we accept it for the good someone else is chasing? Hostages are always told that and then left to suffer.
But we are not hostages: 1.5 million people have said no already, and we won't sit and suffer. People are walking up to the occupiers and telling them to go home.
The Alliance has openly asked for "Occupy Central" to desist from occupation of Mong Kok and Causeway Bay as a show of goodwill to the people. We are ignored.
The silent majority's anger and demands are a trickle now, but may turn into a tidal wave. The question one must face in a civilized and democratic society like Hong Kong, where guns are near nonexistent, is: the will of the majority or the ruthlessness of the minority?
We cannot foretell the outcome. Hong Kong is a divided society now. But the minority cannot hold the majority hostage, unless they surrender.
A social revolution is brewing, and when it ends in success and peace, it may inspire a whole generation of the silent majorities in this world to think: what if we break our silence and control our fate.
The massive street rallies that have swept Hong Kong since the weekend present a major dilemma for China's leadership and the city's own government.
China has called the protests "illegal" and Hong Kong's leader C.Y. Leung has said repeatedly that China's Communist Party leaders won't reverse a decision requiring a pro-Beijing committee to screen candidates in the territory's first direct elections in 2017.
The goal of protesters is to change this policy, arguing that the right to vote is pointless if the candidates are picked by Beijing.  
This, ostensibly, yields little wiggle room for a compromise that would allow both sides to walk away from the standoff, say analysts.
"Xi Jinping does not want to be seen as someone who can't manage a bunch of students in Hong Kong," David Zweig, a professor at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology told CNN, referring to China's president.  
Xi has emerged as a hardline leader, with a track record of using strong-arm tactics against Tibetans and Uyghurs, and dissidents in China, said Willy Lam, an adjunct professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
China also fears that what is happening in Hong Kong will have a domino effect on other Chinese cities, he added, especially in wealthy coastal areas. Even with a media blackout, some Chinese have reportedly been shaving their heads as a gesture of support for the Hong Kong protesters. 
"For (Xi) to make a compromise on Hong Kong would be a tremendous loss of face," Lam said.
Victor Gao, director of China's National Association of International Studies and a one-time translator to former Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping, told CNN that protesters were "really indulging in fantasy" if they thought the central government would back down.  
However, Zweig said there is still some possibility of give-and-take on electoral reform such as allowing more democrats on the nomination committee or by promising to introduce greater democracy in elections slated in 2022. 
Hong Kong protesters have extracted concessions from the Beijing leadership in the past.
Shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong's first post-colonial leader, stepped down in 2005 amid widespread public dissatisfaction.
Protesters have demanded that Leung should follow suit and Lam thinks that it's not inconceivable that Beijing may give him the boot.
"It's a tough situation but I think that there is still room to maneuver on both sides assuming Beijing decides not to use force and that it chooses to marginalize Leung," said Lam. "He's a very divisive and unpopular figure."
Elizabeth Economy,  a senior fellow at U.S. think tank Council on Foreign Relations, said the best outcome might be to replace Leung, "not with a lackey of Beijing or a democracy activist," but with a politician like former chief secretary Anson Chan or Christine Loh, current under-secretary of the environment.
They both have strong political credentials and managerial experience, she said.
"The next three years could then be a test case for what a more independent-minded Hong Kong leader might mean for the island's relations with the mainland and provide guidance for further revisions to Beijing's current limited conception of universal suffrage," she wrote in a blog. 
As a last resort, Beijing could deploy People's Liberation Army (PLA) troops on the streets of Hong Kong, said Lam. 
The PLA has a garrison in Hong Kong, with some 6,000 troops and they have reportedly undergone anti-riot training over the border in nearby Shenzhen.
The People's Daily, the Chinese Communist Party's official mouthpiece, said in an editorial on Wednesday, that Hong Kong could face "unimaginable consequences" if "Occupy Central" were allowed to continue. 
"I don't think they would use lethal weapons but nonetheless deploying armored personnel carriers on the streets could frighten the demonstrators (Into leaving)" said Lam. 
"It would be a last resort. The images of tanks rolling down the streets of Hong Kong would evoke images of the Tiananmen Square massacre. This would be very bad for the Xi administration." 
When protests first erupted at the weekend, authorities initially took a tougher line - using riot gear, pepper spray and most controversially, tear gas to try and clear the demonstrators. 
But on Monday, sensing their approach was backfiring, riot police retreated, suggesting authorities may allow the protests to run their course or, at least, wait until the tide of public opinion turns against them. 
An unnamed source quoted by the Wall Street Journal that Beijing had told Leung to halt the protests in a peaceful way. "You cannot open fire," the source said.  
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi has been the most senior official to comment on the protests so far. 
He echoed previous statements released through state media, calling the protests "illegal acts" but stressing that Beijing believes Hong Kong has the capability to handle the situation. 
"For any country, for any society, no one will allow those illegal acts that violate public order. That 's the situation in the United States, that's the same situation in Hong Kong," he said in Washington before meeting U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry. 
The official Xinhua news agency has said that its decision on electoral reform carries "unshakeable" legal status and force, angering protesters who are opposed to Beijing retaining the ability veto candidates. 
"I think the 'Occupy Central' movement is the Hong Kong version of street politics and color revolutions we've seen in other countries. It's very dangerous," said Chen Zuo'er, a former vice minister of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office under China's cabinet.
"Democracy and the rule of law are the pillars of economic prosperity and social stability in Hong Kong. 'Occupy Central' has attacked both pillars."
Hong Kong is in the midst of a passionate debate about our constitutional development. It's a debate we must have. But it's a debate that must be tempered with reason. Raw emotion -- for or against the proposed political reform -- will get us nowhere.
It must also be a discussion based on the constitutional framework that provides for a Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) within China.
Much discussion has centered around the recent decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPCSC) of China on the parameters for electing the chief executive (CE) by one-person, one-vote in 2017.  
Critics say the nominating framework is too restrictive and that only candidates favored by Beijing will eventually appear on the ballot.
Such claims are unfounded as we have not even started to discuss the detailed but crucial aspects of the nominating process for potential chief executive candidates.  
This will be the subject of a public consultation to be launched soon and which will eventually lead to the enabling legislation on changes to the electoral method for the 2017 election.
On the question of electing the chief executive, the Basic Law, Hong Kong's "mini-constitution," provides that "the ultimate aim is the selection of the chief executive by universal suffrage upon nomination by a broadly representative nominating committee in accordance with democratic procedures."  
To change over to this new election method, the Basic Law requires the endorsement of a two-thirds majority of all (currently 70) members of the Legislative Council, the consent of the CE, and be reported to the NPCSC of China for approval.
Basically, we have two choices: retain the current system by which the CE is elected by a 1,200-person election committee; or, adopt an enhanced system, the one recently announced by the NPCSC, that will see two to three candidates in a full-fledged election at which Hong Kong's five million eligible voters will exercise this right for the first time.  
I sincerely hope that legislators will take the historic step forward to achieve universal suffrage for the election in 2017 as scheduled.
So far the debate has focused on the system per se. But the chief executive's unique constitutional position within China also needs to be understood more clearly in order to fully appreciate the basis for the electoral process.
Unlike other cities or provinces in China, or for that matter, those in other countries, the HKSAR enjoys a far higher degree of autonomy in many areas including our legal system, legislature, internal security, immigration, customs, economy, finances, trade, industry, commerce, shipping, aviation, education, sport, religion and external affairs.  
All these are enshrined in our Basic Law. These additional powers are devolved from the Central People's Government. This is why the central government has the power to appoint the chief executive as well as principal officials.  
This is also why the central government has a constitutional role in approving any changes to the electoral method for the chief executive.
Hong Kong is society with a deep respect for the rule of law. It is the pillar of our success. Our common law system and an independent judiciary are protected by the Basic Law which I, as the chief executive, have pledged to uphold and protect.
It is my fundamental and constitutional duty to work towards the goal of electing the chief executive by universal suffrage within that legal framework.
Just yards from where thousands of pro-democracy supporters have been "occupying" the heart of Hong Kong's financial district, stands an imposing gray building surrounded on all sides by a high wall -- this is the Hong Kong garrison of the People's Liberation Army (PLA), China's armed forces.
The main gates of the base, known as the Prince of Wales barracks until London handed over the city to Beijing in 1997, are guarded by heavily armed sentries in green combat fatigues, who stand statue-like with impassive expressions 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
But despite the fact Hong Kong is a Chinese territory, the PLA garrison abides by local Hong Kong laws that emphasize the city's considerable autonomy. In short they keep a low profile: the soldiers never come out onto the streets of the city, and there's minimal interaction with the local population beyond the occasional open day.
While there is nothing to suggest this will happen, the possible intervention of the 6,000 PLA troops believed stationed here has been the "elephant in the room" for many, as we approach the first full week of pro-democracy demonstrations. For some protesters, memories are still fresh of 1989 and the brutal crackdown of student protests in Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
It was July 1, 1997 when the main force of Chinese soldiers rolled across the border from the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen into Hong Kong, as Britain formally ceded control of the territory it had controlled since 1841.  
Despite heavy rain, the convoy of green military trucks filled with soldiers clutching their rifles was met by crowds waving the flag of the nascent Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong: a white five-petal bauhinia flower on a red background. They headed for Hong Kong Island and their new base, which had earlier been vacated by a British military detachment and was now flying the flag of the People's Republic of China.
The barracks, located in Hong Kong's Central district, are the garrison's headquarters but many PLA personnel -- particularly naval and air force units -- are stationed at smaller facilities across the territory. While troop numbers remain constant, the garrison's personnel are frequently rotated in and out of Hong Kong. According to the city's governing legislative council, the first rotation was conducted in 1998 and 12 rotations have been made since then. 
Under the newly-created "Basic Law," a constitutional agreement that came into effect on July 1, 1997, the PLA garrison -- a mixture of personnel from PLA navy, ground and air forces -- is responsible for defense and to maintain the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of the State and the security of Hong Kong. 
While Article 14 of the Basic Law stipulates that the garrison "shall not interfere in the local affairs of Hong Kong," the Hong Kong government "may, when necessary, ask the Central Government (Beijing) for assistance from the garrison in the maintenance of public order and disaster relief."
It then adds, "the garrison shall perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of the national laws that the Central Government decides to apply in Hong Kong in the event that the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress decides to declare a state of war or, by reason of turmoil within Hong Kong which endangers national unity or security and is beyond the control of the HKSAR Government, decides that Hong Kong is in a state of emergency."
However, Beijing has been at pains to emphasize that the current situation in Hong Kong is the responsibility of the local authorities to address.
Since 1997, China's military presence in Hong Kong has been largely anonymous with little revealed about its daily operations -- with the exception of open days, when the city's population is invited into the PLA's barracks and given the opportunity to see its weaponry and meet soldiers.  
However, there have been signs in recent months that the PLA has started to be more high profile, with regular visits to the city's Victoria Harbor by warships. Recent accounts of armored vehicles rumbling between bases across the city has prompted many to speculate whether this is a deliberate ploy by Beijing to make its presence felt.
C.Y. Leung, the Hong Kong leader whose resignation has become a rallying cry for the protesters that have filled the city's streets this week, was a relative unknown before he took the top job in 2012. 
As the son of a policeman who has used the same briefcase since his student days, his supporters said he would improve the lot of ordinary people in a city that has one of the world's widest wealth gaps.
"He wanted to present himself as someone from the grassroots, not linked to the tycoons... but people have been terribly disappointed," says Joseph Cheng, a professor of political science at City University of Hong Kong.
It's Leung's failure to make progress on the universal suffrage that was promised to the city under the terms of its 1997 handover to China that has rankled Hong Kongers most, bringing tens of thousands of them onto the streets in recent days. 
One of his nicknames is "689" --  a sarcastic reference to the number of votes he obtained from the city's 1,200-strong election committee, a group of people selected from the largely pro-Beijing elite.
And Leung, a former surveyor and real estate consultant, has done little to dispel the prevailing view that he is Beijing's lackey. 
A day after being elected as chief executive he paid a visit to the central government liaison office, Beijing's outpost in the city and he was the first leader to make his inauguration speech in Mandarin -- rather than the Cantonese that is spoken by most people in this former British colony. 
"He is in daily communication with Beijing," says Willy Lam, an adjunct professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. "C.Y. is a very obedient cadre."
Despite this, Leung was not in fact Beijing's first choice to become chief executive. The early favorite was Henry Tang, a  bumbling former financial secretary best known for his penchant for red wine. 
But revelations that Tang's home had an enormous basement which hadn't been approved for planning permission, dubbed an underground palace, derailed his campaign.
However, it was later discovered that Leung's home in the city's exclusive Peak neighborhood also had an illegal structure. 
Leung declared ignorance but it undermined trust in the city's new leader from the get-go and helped earn him another nickname -- "wolf." 
The moniker sounds similar in Cantonese to his family name but also suggests a cunning political operator.  
His approval ratings have plummeted since 2012 and a plush toy wolf made by IKEA sold out across the city earlier this year as Hong Kongers, eager to use it as a tongue-in-cheek symbol of protest, snapped it up. 
A gigantic, enlarged effigy of Leung's head, replete with lupine fangs, has also been a distinctive sight on the streets during the protests.
For all his colorful nicknames, Harry Harrison, political cartoonist at the South China Morning Post, the city's main English-language newspaper, says Leung is a difficult character to portray. 
"C.Y., despite his pantomime villain appearance, hasn't really turned out to be all that cartoonable," he told CNN.  "I've hardly featured him in any cartoons for months now."
Those that do usually feature Leung sitting in his office with a picture of malevolent panda -- symbolizing China -- behind him. 
The reason, says Harrison, is that Leung is rarely out and about and has little public presence, coming across as aloof. 
His unease with ordinary members of the public has been on display this week. 
Leung has only appeared in public three times; twice for press conferences and once for a National Day flag-raising ceremony attended by dignitaries. 
Protest leaders have repeatedly called for him to go and refuse to negotiate with him, preferring a meeting with his number two -- Carrie Lam. 
While Leung says he will not resign, many observers feel his days are numbered, with protesters setting up a makeshift tomb at the protest site.
"Beijing would ... lose face if they were to sack Leung in the near future," says Lam at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
But "it's a foregone conclusion that C.Y. Leung has to go because he is a very divisive and very unpopular figure." 
In the midst of the ongoing Hong Kong pro-democracy protests, travelers in Hong Kong may find moving around slightly more difficult than usual despite the city's efficient and impressive public transport system.
The full impact of the protests on transport is likely to be felt more this week. Many people were away or on leave for a lot of last week due to two public holidays.
Since being occupied by demonstrators, access for vehicles is restricted in key areas of the city and many shops and restaurants in those areas have chosen to close. This means that it is hard to get to some hotels in these areas via taxi or buses.
Sections of major roads have been closed to vehicle traffic, though largely left open for pedestrians. In fact, walking around Hong Kong has been an extremely pleasant experience for a lot of visitors walking on roads that are normally jammed with cars.
Despite the clashes and tear gas attacks on protesters last Sunday night/Monday morning and later clashes between protesters and other groups in Mong Kok, the protests have been extremely peaceful and relatively festive.
However, the situation on the ground could change at any time and all visitors are advised to be appropriately cautious. 
Several nations have posted travel warnings to Hong Kong with similar advisories.
Hong Kong International Airport is operating as per normal and has throughout the protests. The Airport Express train, stations and check-in services are also operating normally.The MTR subway system is operating as normal and is the transport of choice at the moment as it serves all of the road closure areas.Vehicular access is restricted or completely closed in parts of Wan Chai, Admiralty, Central, Mong Kong and Tsim Sha Tsui. Around 70 bus routes have been rerouted and around 30 services stopped. Check with hotel concierges and bus companies KMB, Citybus and NWFB for more details and advice on making your journey.The Hong Kong tram track section between Western Market and Victoria Park (including the Happy Valley loop) has been suspended.Visitors arriving at or leaving from hotels in affected areas should allow more time for their journey and be prepared to lug their baggage to MTR stations if buses, taxis and other road vehicle services cannot access the hotel.
In Hong Kong Island's Admiralty and Wanchai districts, Gloucester Road, Harcourt Road and Connaught Road Central have been closed to vehicle traffic, but remain open to pedestrians.
Yee Wo Street outside SOGO shopping mall in Causeway Bay and parts of Argyle Street and Nathan Road in Mong Kok remain closed.
Various streets in these above areas have also been closed to vehicle traffic, but remain open to pedestrians.
The protest tends to grow at night, as more residents join after school, work or other activities.
It is also possible the protest groups may move or extend to other areas without notice.
Travel to and within protest areas is generally safe but visitors are advised to use caution around Mong Kok where there have been several physical and verbal clashes between protesting students and anti-protest groups despite a police presence there. Arrests have been made in the last few days from these clashes.
Though the MTR is currently operating as normal, updates on MTR station operations are available in English on the company's mobile app.
Bus updates in English can be found on websites operated by Hong Kong's public bus companies, KMB and Citybus/First Bus. 
Many tourists have taken to walking to and through protest zones independently, though tourists on private tours around protest areas have been seen. 
Locals, tourists and supporters of the protestors have taken to "sightseeing" and looking for photo ops on elevated pedestrian bridges over roads near the Central Government Offices in Admiralty, where the largest protest (in terms of number of people) is taking place.
The idea of Hong Kong protests as tourist attractions might seem surreal, but it isn't entirely new. 
In 2012, Lonely Planet included Hong Kong in its list of top 10 cities to visit, recommending such exotic attractions as the Star Ferry, Chinese fortune-telling and local protest rallies.
The popular guidebook called Hong Kong "China's most liberated city" and predicted that 2012 would be an exciting year for the city, highlighting its "rallies infused with theatrics and eruptions of song, dance and poetry" as it continued its push for greater democracy.
Pro-democracy activists in Hong Kong ignored a deadline given by the government to disperse but allowed city workers to enter offices that had been blocked last week.
There were no apparent signs of any police action against the demonstrators early Monday, and the protest sites were populated but peaceful. 
The protesters, many of them students, have blocked major highways in several key districts for the past week, challenging a decision by Beijing about how elections will work in the semiautonomous Chinese territory.
Hong Kong's top leader, Chief Executive C.Y. Leung, had called on the demonstrators to disperse by Monday so that classes can resume at schools and government employees can go back to work at offices surrounded by protesters.
By Monday morning, a key road adjacent to Leung's office reopened, although some 100 students remained camped out in front, according to a CNN staffer on the scene. 
The protesters did not block the paths of Hong Kong government workers, allowing them to enter the Central Government Office Building through a corridor the students formed. Workers could be seen entering the building without incident. 
The Hong Kong Federation of Students said at a press conference it had met with three representatives of the government to try to pave the way for future talks with Hong Kong's Chief Secretary Carrie Lam, the territory's second in command, to potentially defuse the crisis.
Lester Shum, the deputy secretary general for the students' federation, told reporters that the two sides had failed to reach an agreement, but had agreed to continue the dialogue, which both parties said would be direct and mutually respectful.
He said the students laid out three conditions for future talks: that the dialogue must be ongoing, that the student leaders must be treated as equals, and that real political change must emerge from the talks.
He said the student protesters would continue the protest until they had a productive dialogue.
Addressing crowds at the protests, the federation's secretary general, Alex Chow, repeatedly called on protesters to "add oil" -- a phrase meaning "keep it up" -- as he urged the movement to continue.
The federation also said in a statement that the government needed to take violence against the protesters seriously, and refrain from forcefully clearing the sites -- or the occupation would "certainly continue."
There was confusion Sunday evening as to whether protesters would leave two major protest locations to consolidate their efforts at the main demonstration site in the city's Admiralty district. 
The protest group Occupy Central with Love and Peace said on its Twitter account that demonstrators had decided to withdraw from outside the chief executive's office, a key point of tension with authorities.
But after the tweet was sent, crowd numbers at the site grew rapidly, according to CNN staff present, with protesters yelling that it was false information that they were leaving.
Occupy Central also said that demonstrators at the Mong Kok protest site, where clashes have taken place with opponents of the movement, would relocate to the main protest site on a multilane highway near the government headquarters in Admiralty.
But other protesters did not want to comply with Occupy's announcement. They sat on the ground, and barricades were not moved.
Gary Yuen, 30, who has been at the Mong Kok site since the protests started, told CNN that less than 20 people had relocated to Admiralty.
"Today there are lots of supporters," he said. "You can see we all want to stay."
Chow, of the students' federation, told Hong Kong's public broadcaster RTHK it was up to individual protesters to decide if they would remain at the Mong Kok protest, but those who decided to stay should take care for their safety.
Dozens of people were injured as scuffles broke out Friday and Saturday at the protest site in Mong Kok, a tightly packed district of shops and residences surrounding one of the city's busiest intersections.
Hong Kong government figures show that 165 people -- 120 male and 45 female -- have been injured since the protests started last week.
Students and other protesters have accused police of failing to protect them from attacks by people who want an end to the demonstrations.
Police have rejected the accusations, calling them "totally unfounded and extremely unfair to police officers who faithfully and diligently performed their duty at the scene."
The protesters had broken off previously planned talks with the government because of the violence.
Demonstrators are upset with a decision this summer by China's ruling Communist Party to let a committee stacked with Beijing loyalists choose who can run as a candidate for the chief executive role in the 2017 election.
 A new electoral system will, for the first time, let the city's 5 million eligible voters pick a winner rather than the largely pro-Beijing committee of 1,200 members that has chosen past leaders. But critics argue that the right to vote is pointless if the candidates are handpicked by Beijing.
They complain the Chinese government is encroaching too heavily on the affairs of Hong Kong, which has been governed according to the "one country, two systems" policy since Britain handed it back to China in 1997.
Support for the protest swelled last Sunday, when police used tear gas and pepper spray in a failed effort to disperse demonstrators. The use of such heavy-handed tactics shocked many residents in Hong Kong, where protests usually unfold peacefully.
The Chinese and Hong Kong governments have declared the demonstrations illegal. Beijing has heavily restricted the flow of information on the Chinese mainland about the protest movement.
Eleven-year-olds sometimes have trouble sleeping through the night, kept awake by monsters they can't see. 
They had long beards and dull-colored robes and had taken over her city in the Swat Valley, in northwestern Pakistan. 
It was such a beautiful place once, so lush and untouched that tourists flocked there to ski. But that was before 2003, when the Taliban began using it as a base for operations in nearby Afghanistan. 
The Taliban believe girls should not be educated, or for that matter, even leave the house. In Swat they worked viciously to make sure residents obeyed.
But this was not how Malala decided she would live. With the encouragement of her father, she began believing that she was stronger than the things that scared her.
"The Taliban have repeatedly targeted schools in Swat," she wrote in an extraordinary blog when she was empowered to share her voice with the world by the BBC. 
She was writing around the time the Taliban issued a formal edict in January 2009 banning all girls from schools. On the blog, she praised her father, who was operating one of the few schools that would go on to defy that order.
"My father said that some days ago someone brought the printout of this diary saying how wonderful it was," Malala wrote. "My father said that he smiled, but could not even say that it was written by his daughter."
Now 14, she was coming home from school in a van with other schoolchildren when Taliban assassins stopped the vehicle, climbed on and demanded that the children identify her. Terrified, the children did it and the men fired, also wounding two other girls. 
"We do not tolerate people like Malala speaking against us," a Taliban spokesman later said, as Malala, in a Pakistani hospital, breathed with the help of a ventilator.
The Taliban would come for her again if she managed to survive, the spokesman threatened.
Since October she has been in Great Britain receiving top medical care from an international team of doctors. On Wednesday, doctors announced that she is expected to undergo further surgery in Birmingham, to repair her skull. 
Malala looks the same today at 14, as she did at 11, like a child. But with each interview she gave to Pakistani and international reporters between 2009 and 2012, she sounded more like an adult. 
"I have the right of education," she said in a 2011 interview with CNN. "I have the right to play. I have the right to sing. I have the right to talk. I have the right to go to market. I have the right to speak up."
"God will ask you on the day of judgment, 'Where were you when your people were asking you ... when your school fellows were asking you and when your school was asking you ...'Why I am being blown up?'"
In January 2009, Malala and her father sat in their living room drinking tea and eating beef and curry stew.
It was the night before the Taliban had issued their edict against girls in school.
Ziauddin Yousufzai was beside himself. He knew he would have to close one of the private schools he ran for girls. 
Yousufzai grew up in the Swat area with little access to educational resources, but he had a natural passion for learning and literature. He was devastated that his daughter would be robbed of those pleasures.
That's according to Adam Ellick, a reporter with the New York Times who filmed a 2009 documentary about Malala and her father and the Taliban's campaign against girls' education. 
Ellick spent months with the father and daughter and formed a deep friendship with them.
"Ziauddin had a revolutionary zeal and deep commitment to education," Ellick said this week. "This charming little girl, she is a mini-version of him in many ways. She loves school, homework. Whenever she would meet me she had a bookbag full of books."
"She didn't have that idealistic activist attitude when she's 10 and 11, because who does?" Ellick said. "Her situation demanded that she grow up before she should have. She caught his contagious commitment and idealism."
In the family's living room in 2009, Yousufzai lovingly put his palm atop his daughter's head. 
"A newborn child ... I looked into her eyes," he said. "I love her ... I love her."
Yousufzai explained what he thought of the Taliban, revealing a daring spirit. 
"(The Taliban) left my people in hard days," he said, trying to find the right words in English. 
"I should be beside them. This is my duty. And if I die for it, I think there would be no better chance for me to die than this."
It was, without a doubt, a huge risk to educate girls in Swat around this time. 
One need only look at the headlines in the region. "Militants destroyed 125 girls' schools in 10 months,' the Pakistan newspaper Daily Times reported in August 2008. 
Human rights workers and aid agencies held a seminar in the area in 2008 to try to voice their concerns. They said Pakistani politicians and leaders were not listening. 
Between 2007 and March 2009, 172 schools were shelled, blasted, demolished or ransacked. About 23,000 girls and 17,000 boys could no longer go to school, according to the United Nations High Commission on Human Rights.
In October 2010, months after massive floods caused widespread devastation in Pakistan, the Taliban stepped up its bombing campaign against schools that defiantly continued to educate girls. 
For girls who weren't hurt, fear that they would be accomplished the Taliban's objective. Parents kept their daughters home to protect them. 
In her BBC blog, Malala wrote on the eve of the edict that she had just ended her routine winter break from school. Usually before break, the principal would announce when classes would resume. 
But what do you do when you're 11? You go to the playground and you play, so that's what they did.
Some of the girls said they thought everything would work out. They'd be back, they said.
Malala wanted to be hopeful, too. But before she left, she turned around and took one long look at the building. 
After January 2009, she was forced to stay at home and read books, Ellick said. 
Eventually she was moved around the country where she attended ad-hoc schools. 
Meaning corn flower in Urdu, the native language of the region, Gul Makai is a name taken from a character in a Pashtun folk story. It's not well known, but Pashtun experts say the story is a kind of Romeo and Juliet tale. It's a sweet love story laced with tragedy. 
It's the kind of story that a young girl would know and would romanticize. 
In 2010 she met with U.S. Special Envoy to Pakistan and Afghanistan Richard Holbrooke. 
"She said, 'I want to get ice cream...I love vanilla ice cream,'" Ellick recalled. "Here is this girl that can go from being at a negotiating table, a high-level diplomatic meeting, but she also wanted ice cream."
Ellick remembered another time when they were out shopping in Islamabad, having fun and hunting for English language books and DVDs.
"I was disappointed that she wanted some trashy American sitcoms," Ellick laughs. "I kept telling myself, 'I know you want her to want to watch a documentary about Sierra Leone but she is just a girl.'"
Malala told Geo TV in Pakistan in 2012 that the Taliban could do whatever they liked, but she was still going to get an education.
"We live in the 21st century," Malala said. "How can we be deprived from education?"
When he first met Malala, in tow with her father, she was kind of bashful. 
"She wasn't as confident then as she has become," he said. "They've received attention and awards. They felt like their labor was paying off."
But could a 14-year-old really fully appreciate that words, however inspiring, could get her killed?
A CNN reporter asked her last year what she would do if she were president of Pakistan. 
The reporter pressed her hard. These guys have guns and bombs. You're just a kid, you do as you're told, they would tell her.
If they didn't want to talk, she said, she would use the holy book they used to justify their brutality. 
Nowhere in the Quran, Malala said, does it say that girls should not be allowed to go to school.
On Friday, Malala Yousafzai became the youngest recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize. But just a day earlier, she passed the two-year anniversary of the gruesome event that flung her and her cause onto the world stage -- the attempt on her life.
Gunmen halted the van ferrying her through her native Swat Valley, one of the most conservative regions in Pakistan. They demanded that other girls in the vehicle identify her. Malala had faced frequent death threats in the past. 
She was pointed out. At least one gunman opened fire, wounding three girls. Two suffered nonlethal injuries, but bullets struck Malala in the head and neck. 
Malala was left in critical condition. An uncle described her as having excruciating pain and being unable to stop moving her arms and legs. 
Doctors fought to save her life, then her condition took a dip. They operated to remove a bullet from her neck, and extracted a piece of skull to relieve pressure on Malala's brain because of swelling. After surgery, she was unresponsive for three days.
Malala was taken by helicopter from one military hospital in Pakistan to another, where doctors placed her in a medically induced coma so an air ambulance could fly her to Britain for treatment.
Little more than a week after being shot a world away, Malala got back on her feet again, able to stand when leaning on a nurse's arm at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham, England.
It was nothing short of a miracle that the teen blogger, who fought for the right of girls to get an education, was still alive and even more astounding that she suffered no major brain or nerve damage.
Less than three months after being gunned down, she was discharged from the hospital to continue her rehabilitation at her family's new home. A groundbreaking surgery later repaired the damage to her skull.
Beyond her hospital room, a world sympathetic to her ordeal has transformed her into a global symbol for the fight to allow girls everywhere access to an education. 
The bloodletting sparked outrage inside Pakistan against the radical Islamist group, which continues to wield influence in parts of the country. Around the world, the young blogger became a poster child for a widespread need to permit girls to get an education.
In Pakistan, the airwaves filled with leaders and commentators who publicly got behind her, and journalists closely followed her story, drawing death threats from the Taliban for their coverage.
Her story spread around the world, and world leaders took up her cause, particularly former UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown.
The United Nations launched a campaign for girls' education named "I am Malala," which Brown guided as special envoy on global education. And it declared November 10 Malala Day -- a day of action to focus on "Malala and the 32 million girls like Malala not at school."
Malala founded the Malala Fund, which invests in local educational initiatives for girls in Pakistan, Nigeria and Kenya, and in Jordan, where it focuses on Syrian refugees.
And she continued to advocate around the world for a girl's right to an education, speaking before the U.N. 
Last year, she was a contender for the Nobel Peace Prize, but did not win. She was modest about her prospects then, saying a win would be premature.
"I think that it's really an early age," Malala said. She wanted to do more to earn it first.
"I would feel proud, when I would work for education, when I would have done something, when I would be feeling confident to tell people, 'Yes! I have built that school; I have done that teachers' training, I have sent that (many) children to school,' " she said. 
"Then if I get the Nobel Peace Prize, I will be saying, Yeah, I deserve it, somehow."
Last year, she also was awarded the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought from the European Parliament, and she published her autobiography, "I Am Malala" on her struggle to get an education.
World support for her cause has not deterred the Taliban from pursuing her death.
After her book's publication, they renewed their threat. They also vowed to attack any bookstore that sold it.
Malala's struggle for education for girls and against the Pakistani Taliban predates the attempt on her life.
Since she was 11, with the help of her father, a schoolteacher, she had encouraged girls and their families to resist extremists who pushed girls from classrooms.
In January 2009, the militants issued an edict ordering that no school should educate girls. Malala wrote in her online diary, published by the BBC, about intimidation tactics the Taliban used in the Swat Valley in northwest Pakistan to coerce girls into not going school.
They included house raids to search for books, and Malala had to hide hers under her bed.
The extremists took issue with her blogging and issued the first threats to kill her.  
"I was scared of being beheaded by the Taliban because of my passion for education," she told CNN three years ago. Despite her fears, she stayed in the public eye, giving media interviews about her struggle for education in the face of oppression.
Friday's peace prize may be the most prestigious Malala has received, but it is not her first. At home, her writings garnered her Pakistan's first-ever National Peace Prize in late 2011.
The revolution will not be televised but it will be tweeted, instant messaged or, in the case of Hong Kong, broadcast on mesh networks like FireChat.
FireChat -- an 'off-the-grid' smartphone app -- emerged this month as the technological glue holding Hong Kong's pro-democracy protests together and a powerful weapon in the hands of mass movements, dissidents and protesters. 
The app works by creating its own network outside the internet, relying simply on the Bluetooth or Wi-Fi link that exist between one phone and another. 
Unlike mobile and internet networks which come under strain and break down the more users tax the system, the more people in a mesh network like FireChat, the better it works.
"We were pretty much forced to use it almost at the start of the protests because there were just so many people in the protest areas, it made the cell network so slow," said Pamela Lam, an 'Occupy Central' pro-democracy activist. "FireChat doesn't need data to work -- a lot of people were downloading it."
The company that developed the application, Open Garden, initially struggled to keep up with its new-found popularity, adding more capacity as news of the app spread from Hong Kong to rest of the world.
For a start-up that only launched in March this year, the numbers were staggering.
In the first two weeks of the protests, between September 27 and October 10, the service registered 500,000 downloads in Hong Kong alone (61% on Android and 39% on iOS), 10.2 million chat sessions and 1.6 million chatrooms.
"We were not expecting this and we were very surprised," FireChat marketing chief Christophe Daligault told CNN. "We saw this enormous surge in our service and realized something really big was happening.
"Now we've seen spikes just about everywhere in the world and there may be two reasons for this. The first is that there are some people who use it to get the latest information about what's happening in Hong Kong and the second are people who just want to see what the fuss is all about."
Chinese language users, in particular, have taken to the app, expressing support for the movement from as far away as Australia and the United States.
With the buzz now dying down, Daligault said that the volume of downloads was tailing off but activity is trending up and the chat sessions have got shorter as people keep communications focused on important information.
"What that says to us is that quite a few people are sticking with it," Daligault said.
Unlike other messaging applications, FireChat is not limited to a user's circle. What goes up on FireChat is available for everybody to see.
"You could be in a place and shout I'm in this precise location and we need water bottles right now and someone whom you don't know can answer that message  come with those bottles.
"That would be harder to do with Facebook or Whatsapp where you're limited by the people you know as far as the reach of your communication is concerned."
The co-founder and CEO of Open Garden Micha Benoliel happened to be in Hong Kong on a layover when the protests started and extended his stay to get live feedback on the service. 
One thing that protesters complained about was that everyone could read the traffic, including opponents of the Occupy movement. Since then FireChat has added a verification component that stamps the messages as coming from a particular user or group.
"Apparently there was misinformation being spread on FireChat and people were putting up scare messages to try to convince people to go home," Daligault said.
While FireChat became the app of choice in Hong Kong's -- and saw similar success in protests earlier this year in Taiwan -- Daligault said the app was never designed as a messaging tool for protesters.
"What we envisioned was a service that would provide communication for people in places where there was poor connectivity and a large population density. Cities such as New Delhi or Mexico City," he said.
FireChat is now only one of a number of apps -- Serval Mesh, Commotion and Storymaker - that are competing in the mesh-network services space.
A Russian mesh-networking app called Telegram was used in South Korea in May after the government announced a crackdown in response to rumors that were spreading on the Korean homegrown messaging sevice Kakao Talk.
As many as 35 million people reportedly used the service, which allows users to erase their messages or chats after a certain length of time.
Private messaging is now one of the options that FireChat is developing in the wake of the gigantic beta test its service received in the Hong Kong protests.
"We are working on adding private messaging with encryption. But this will take months, not weeks," said Daligault. "This is much harder than for other communication apps as we need to make this work off the grid."
While FireChat was a useful device for relaying information and encouragement during the early mass protests in Hong Kong, it became less useful once Occupy moved into a game of cat and mouse with the police.
"The problem with FireChat is that everyone around you can get your message, including the police," explained Hong Kong-based student Michelle Zheng. "If you're discussing your deployment through FireChat, the police know straight away where your weak links are."
Skype users will soon be able to conduct voice and video calls supported by a near-real time translation technology. 
And while it can't yet guarantee that no fine detail will be lost in translation, Microsoft's new idea for its video chat platform surely feels like something straight out of science fiction.
No longer will our hopes for such a marvel be tagged to imaginary aquatic creatures -- the Babel fish from "The Hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy" -- or improbable "telepathic fields", such as the one cast by Doctor Who's TARDIS to relay any alien language to its pilot in plain English. 
It all sounds, in fact, quite similar to what Klingons in Star Trek use to make their generally belligerent intentions quite clear: an unseen, but ever-present, "universal translator".
"The idea that people don't understand each other, it's going to be a thing of the past," Gurdeep Pall, Corporate VP of Skype, told CNN's Richard Quest.
"In the same way it's hard to imagine a world before you were able to travel to different places and quickly, whether it be in a car or a plane, we'll never think about, wow, those were the dark ages where people couldn't understand each other. That's where we're headed."
Called Skype Translator, the add-on builds on the research done for Microsoft Translator, and uses a technology called Deep Neural Networks, which yields significantly better speech recognition results than previous methods.
It will be available as a Windows 8 beta app before the end of the year, but Microsoft is already showing off its English to German functionality, as you can see in the video above. 
It is still unclear whether the service will be free for the 300 million Skype users, or will be extended to other platforms.
Microsoft is not alone in its quest for a universal translator. Google already offers translation by voice in its Google Translation service and is also working on integrating real-time translation into Android. And Sigmo, a Bluetooth device that promises real time speech translation in 25 languages, went through a successful crowdfunding campaign last year.
Pro-democracy demonstrators recapture part of bustling district in Hong Kong
Pro-democracy demonstrators seized back part of Hong Kong's bustling Mong Kok district Saturday after a night of scuffles. 
Spurred on by police attempts to reopen part of the district to traffic, the protesters' numbers increased overnight, swelling to around 9,000, according to Hong Kong police. 
By Saturday morning, the demonstrators had reclaimed the territory that they had ceded less than a day earlier. 
Amid the tussling, Hong Kong Chief Secretary Carrie Lam, the government negotiator, announced Saturday that talks with pro-democracy protesters will take place Tuesday, with Lingnan University President Leonard Cheng as moderator.
"The meeting is expected to take place for about two hours," she said, adding that it will be broadcast live but not open to the public.
The reaction from Yvonne Leung, spokeswoman for the Hong Kong Federation of Students, was lukewarm at best. She said in statement that the protest group didn't "have much opinion" about the details of the meeting. 
On the streets, meanwhile, the situation remains highly volatile, with the protests continuing through the weekend. 
Protesters crossed police lines, authorities said, clashing with officers as the situation turned violent. 
Secretary for Security Lai Tung-kwok Saturday called protesters in Mong Kok overnight "radical," saying they were not protesting peacefully but instead carrying out violent acts and violating the public order.
"This caused chaos and dangers and had caused serious threats to public safety," he said.
At least 240 people were injured over the past 24 hours, according to the Hong Kong Hospital Authority, which manages all public hospitals in the city. 
At least 33 people were arrested and faced various charges, including property damage, disorderly conduct, weapons possession and resisting arrest, police said.
Violence erupted after police conducted a dawn raid Friday on a student protest camp in the commercial and residential area of Kowloon.
Authorities moved to clear a major intersection occupied by the pro-democracy protesters for almost three weeks, tearing down tents and dismantling barricades.
Around 500 to 600 police carrying wire cutters and riot shields stormed the Mong Kok site, a smaller offshoot of the main downtown protest area, catching the 100 to 200 protesters by surprise. 
University student Adrian Lui, who had been at the protest camp for three days, said he was sleeping when the police moved in.  
"They were running towards us with shields and at that moment we were nervous," he said. "Lots of people got spooked and ran down side streets."
Hong Kong leader C.Y. Leung said Thursday that the government was eager to resume talks with the main student group as early as next week. 
However, he said the city's tolerance of mass sit-ins was limited and the standoff could not carry on.
One of the main student groups, the Hong Kong Federation of Students, said late Thursday it was willing to have dialogue.  
Protesters continue to occupy a major thoroughfare in Admiralty, close to the city's financial district and government headquarters, but police have chipped away at the area held by protesters this week by removing barricades and opening roads to traffic.
At the peak of the protest in early October, tens of thousands of people came onto the streets at three locations in Hong Kong -- Admiralty, Causeway Bay and Mong Kok -- to call for universal suffrage.
Protesters want to be able to nominate candidates for the election of the city's chief executive in 2017. Instead, China's National People's Congress  has said they'll be able to vote from a shortlist approved by a pro-Beijing committee.
Currently, the chief executive is elected by a specially-appointed 1,200 member election committee.
Ever since two men first laid a bet on two flies climbing up a cave wall, gambling has struck at the core of the human condition: the future is uncertain.
And while games of chance like dice and cards have been with us for centuries, bar room wagers on matters of abstract speculation have often been lost to history, disappearing as fast as the hot air that produced them.
Thanks to websites like Longbets.org and professional gaming sites like Paddy Power, oddball bets on everything from the next pope to the life expectancy of the universe have a running book.
In the case of Longbets.org, they are the source of heated debate about the shape of the future.
"These bets become an interesting tool to understand how we think about the future and even if we are really arguing about the right things," said Alexander Rose, director of the Long Now Foundation, which backs the Long Bets project.
Betting exchanges that take novelty bets are nothing new -- Paddy Power has a long-running book on whether it will snow on Christmas Day and the next pope -- but what makes Long Bets different is that it will only accept bets that advance our understanding of science and the future.
So far, Long Bets has taken long-term bets on whether drones will do battle as part of protests, whether commercial flights will become pilotless and on the future of level of the world's population.
"People need to have an opposing argument and come to an agreement about the terms which actually turns out to be quite tricky," Rose told CNN. 
"Someone will make a bet, for instance, that we will find extraterrestrial intelligence in the next 50 years, then there's often a long philosophical discussion about what constitutes extraterrestrial intelligence or even life. 
"If we are talking about something as strange as that, we don't know even if we'd recognize it."
Often, he said, the parties have already bashed out the terms before they come to Long Bets. 
In the case of its current highest profile bet -- a million dollar bet between billionaire investor Warren Buffett and alternative investment group Protege Partners, LLC - the two parties had already agreed the terms and had come to Long Bets to find a platform for the wager.
For a simple $50 fee, anyone can make a prediction, which then becomes a bet when someone takes up the challenge. Nothing is too outlandish, said Rose, as long as it is well argued.
"We had one bet on the cost of energy five years into the future and the parties had used a very good source which was the report of the US Department of Energy," he said.
However, when it came time to adjudicate that bet it was found the government had pulled its report in the wake of the $74 billion Enron scandal in 2001.
"Enron had sufficiently skewed the energy market that the government had to unwind all the Enron trades out of its report to know the true cost of energy," Rose said. "It was enough to flip the results of the bet."
Often the future is so unpredictable that the parameters of the debate change entirely. Once such argument over whether the top 10 news stories would come from a blog or the Wall Street Journal was, at the time, surprisingly eclipsed by Wikipedia which was little known in 2002.
"We often find that it's not so much whether someone was right or wrong, but that what was being argued about was not even relevant," Rose said. "Our main goal is that they create an interesting discussion about the future. And we try to keep them away from celebrities and sports and more on arguments about the world.
"We've taken a few bets on sports but only when they've been arguments about globalization."
A bet on whether the universe will keep expanding is unlikely ever to see a winner, but a $20,000 bet between Google's director of engineering Ray Kurzweil and Lotus Development founder Mitchell Kapor on artificial intelligence passing the Turing test comes up in 2029. To pass the test, a machine or computer program must convince a human judge that it has a level of intelligent behavior indistinguishable from that of a human being.
For mainstream punters, meanwhile, betting exchanges like Paddy Power have been taking novelty bets on everything from the next pope - more than ¢G300,000 ($450,000) was placed after Pope Benedict's resignation -- to parents betting on their sons becoming soccer World Cup football captains.
"For us it's really a fraction of our business, less than 1%, but it's very good for our profile and we like doing it," Paddy Power told CNN. "And anyway who knows? One day we'll all be caught with our pants down when Elvis comes back into town."
It's no coincidence that Ai Weiwei's latest exhibition is located in Alcatraz, a former jail that sits on an isolated island off the San Francisco coast. 
The Chinese artist and activist explores themes of imprisonment, featuring prisoners of conscience from around the world. It's also familiar territory for Ai, who was detained by Chinese authorities for 81 days in 2011 and still cannot travel out of China. 
Visitors to Ai's exhibit, called @Large, can sit in a drab, 8x5 feet concrete cell and listen to the works of dissidents, such as anti-Apartheid singers and anti-Soviet musicians whose poems or songs landed them in prison. 
Among them is Lolo, a Tibetan singer whose song implores the children of Tibet to "raise the Tibetan flag." Lolo is serving a six-year prison sentence for calling for independence -- a direct challenge to China's rule. 
In another installation, the image of Liu Xiaobo, the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize winner, fashioned out of black, grey, blue and white Lego peers out at visitors. Liu, who called for the end of China's single-party rule, is serving an 11-year prison sentence. 
The theme of confinement and suppression runs throughout the former U.S. federal penitentiary. 
Although Alcatraz is better known for holding feared inmates like U.S. gangster Al Capone, the prison also held Native Americans who balked at mandatory U.S. assimilation policies and conscientious objectors, who refused to serve in the military on political or religious grounds.
Ai doesn't back off critiquing the United States, by crediting Edward Snowden and Chelsea Manning among the 176 people around the world who have been imprisoned or exiled because of their beliefs or affiliations. 
He pays tribute to them by forming their faces out of 1.2 million Lego pieces.
When Ai's exhibit on Alcatraz officially opened in late September, it coincided with mass pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong. 
During that weekend, police in Hong Kong arrested about 70 student protesters, including several of its young leaders, in the mass call for democracy. 
That protest, fueled by youngsters, is now continuing into its fourth week in Hong Kong. 
It's important that the work can appeal to the next generation, says Cheryl Haines, the curator of the @Large exhibit.
Some of the artworks are interactive, encouraging viewers to walk, view more closely or even get involved -- especially in one installation where they can write postcards to imprisoned dissidents. 
"It invigorates the viewers to interact with the work," said Haines, the executive director of FOR-SITE, a foundation which organized the exhibit. They also brought wifi to Alcatraz for the first time so visitors could send Instagrams and Tweets from the island.
"It's keeping with the artist's desire to activate the next generation's conversation," Haines said.
In a sense, it already has. Protest art has proliferated on the streets of Hong Kong, whether it's calling for democracy or lampooning its chief executive through postcards, paintings and pop-up installations. 
Symbols of democracy and free speech plaster the walls, highway barriers, bridges and stairways. Umbrellas, which symbolize the Hong Kong protests, dot the roads. Slogans are painted on posters hanging from prominent bridges -- suggesting the political power of art. 
As Ai is still unable to leave China, he and his team constructed the pieces in their studio. He then sent three teams to the United States to erect the seven art installations inside Alcatraz's dining room, labor building, the psychiatric observation cells, hopsital and inside the cell block. 
Perhaps the most haunting of exhibits is "Stay Tuned," where the voice of dissent singing or reciting a poem or speech booms inside the small, isolated prison cells. 
Housed inside Alcatraz Cellblock A, there's a haunting chill within the concrete mass. Each prison cell behind chipped white steel bars contains just a solitary stool and a stained white sink. 
Visitors can walk inside each of the 12 cells, which represent the imprisonment of dissidents like Russia's Pussy Riot, Martin Luther King Jr., and the Robben Island Singers, who were anti-Apartheid singers. 
One visit Eileen Kurahashi, sat inside each of them, closing her eyes shut. 
"It's a powerful access to something so tragic and breathtaking," she said.
The voice of dissident plays in a loop -- but the sound remains confined into a prison reminding visitors of the cost of free expression. 
In business, it might pay to keep the customer happy, but how far should you go just to keep the peace? 
Thanks to new technology, a bad review now cuts both ways and the peer review is increasingly a feature of everything from holidays and restaurants to cab rides and flat shares. 
For Bereket Hagos, who drives an Uber car in central London, the two-way street of peer reviews has democratized a process that was normally arbitrated by employers. 
"You just deal directly with the customer and that means there's real respect," he told CNN. 
Uber runs a five-star rating system for both drivers and customers, which Hagos says has a tendency to keep the reviews honest. 
"My rating is 4.66 out of 5, which is good -- for me that's absolutely beautiful!" he says. "You can't expect 5 all the time because, of course, you meet a lot of people." 
Reviews, too, have a subjective basis and Hagos says a driver or a passenger's reputation can be damaged unfairly. A difficult customer, he says, isn't necessarily difficult all the time. 
"I personally will pick up passengers with a low rating because I simply don't like to ignore people," he said. "When I've picked them up, I've found them to be perfectly nice." 
Online customer reviews are now big business and, according to Margaret Ady of TrustYou, a company that tracks and aggregates reviews in the hospitality industry, online opinion is now the No.1 factor in influencing consumer choices. 
"It has a huge impact. It's become the most trustworthy source of information for most travelers and peer reviews are really driving bookings," Ady told CNN. 
"We've found that 65 per cent of travelers won't even book a hotel if it hasn't had a review written about it." 
Peer reviews have now changed the marketing landscape for hotels, restaurants and holiday destinations. 
"In many cases, they're beginning to make the old star rating for hotels obsolete," she said. "There are still different expectations for different price categories but it's easier to look at reviews and see what people are saying and to make your booking decision based on that. 
"It gives it more texture and for many people it's just more trustworthy." 
TrustYou works by collating thousands of reviews from more than 250 websites around the world, aggregates them and then runs them through a semantic algorithm to get an overview of the hotel, restaurant or destination. 
Any outlying opinions -- either wildly positive or extremely negative -- are ironed out in the aggregate results produced by the company. 
"What we're getting is exactly what the crowd is saying about a place," Ady said. 
Responding to negative feedback is always a delicate operation for vendors and service providers and TrustYou says the professional reputation of a client often hinges on how it responds to a flame from a customer. 
"We give them guidelines, saying acknowledge if there was a problem, explain the steps you are taking to fix it and invite the guest back and explain that their stay next time will be much more comfortable," Ady said. 
"We encourage clients to get in touch with the complainant directly to see if anything needs to be discussed. 
"That tends to work pretty well. Although I have seen in the news some hotels that have not done a good job of this, luckily none of them were clients." 
Online reviews are also becoming a powerful marketing tool for companies, with a spread of opinions not only showing up the strengths and weaknesses of a given service provider but also those of its rivals. 
TrustYou provides its clients with a monitoring tool that allows it to see what is being said about its business across all platforms and a dashboard that enables it to respond to every review being written. 
"Then they can see our semantic analysis, so they can see areas where they are doing well and should be marketing along with areas that aren't doing so well and they need to improve," Ady said. 
"They can also see their competitors too to see how they stack up or even get comparisons between hotels within their own chain." 
While hotels and restaurants have been paying attention to online reviews for the past five or more years, Ady says it's only relatively recently that companies are starting to see them as a valuable marketing tool. 
Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou is faced with a hugely delicate balancing act: the need to maintain good economic relations with China while trying to keep Beijing's push for reunification at bay.
During a recent session with reporters in the presidential office building, Ma leaned back in a dark-blue armchair under an oil painting of Sun Yat-sen -- modern China's founding father whose legacy is claimed by Taipei  and Beijing-- and delivered a clear message: economic relations with China should be developed but not at the cost of sovereignty. 
"During my tenure as president, I will not discuss unification with mainland China," he declared. But he added that he would "not promote independence, let alone the use of force" either. 
"I believe this is essential to achieving a stable and lasting framework for peaceful development," he said.
Ma says his government is watching pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong closely to see whether Beijing will honor its initial promises on universal suffrage. 
The city is regarded as a testing ground for the "one country, two systems" formula that China's leaders originally hoped would entice Taiwan back into the fold.  
China and Taiwan -- officially the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China -- separated in 1949 following a civil war. But China still claims Taiwan as its territory and, to this day, is reported to have missiles pointed at the island. 
Ma said he does "not fear that Taiwan will become a second Hong Kong," as the two were completely different cases. He also admitted a soft spot for the former British colony that was also his birthplace. 
Xi Jinping, China's most powerful president in decades, has brought new urgency to the unification issue by stating that the problem should not be pushed from generation to generation. 
In September, he expressed his "firm and unwavering stance" on reunification under the idea of "one country, two systems" during a meeting with pro-unification delegates in Beijing. Within hours, Ma rejected the idea as "unacceptable."
During the interview, Ma acknowledged his counterpart in Beijing has a more "high-handed posture" than his predecessors. 
And in a speech on the island's national day October 10, he urged Xi to introduce democracy for his 1.3 billion people -- letting free elections in Hong Kong be the first step. Ma has also encouraged mainland Chinese exchange students to study in Taiwan to experience its open society. 
"We have never wistfully thought that mainland China would become democratized quickly," he said. 
"All our efforts in Taiwan have aimed at showing ethnic Chinese societies around the world that the imported concept of democracy can take root, germinate, and grow into a big tree on purely ethnic Chinese soil."
Chinese state media last week accused Taiwan of recruiting mainland students studying on the island as spies. Soon after, Taiwan banned senior officials from studying in China for "national security" reasons.
Despite his firm position against reunification, Ma, who took office 2008, has made more of an attempt to ease tensions with the mainland than any of his predecessors -- mainly by creating closer business relations and signing a total of 21 cooperative agreements, including the ground-breaking Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement, ECFA. 
Many Taiwanese companies have moved factories to China, while Chinese banks now operate on the island. Six years ago no direct flights existed between the island and the mainland; today there are hundreds of flight a week and tourists are flooding in. 
Victor Teo of the University of Hong Kong said Taiwan's leader is making progress as he negotiates the thin line between economic pragmatism and sovereignty. 
"Ma is doing more for Taiwan in terms of democratization, economic development and the preservation of autonomy than he would if he took the position of his predecessors," he said.
"I personally have a very high opinion of President Ma, and I think he has the balance right. His main difficulties are being accused of 'coddling the tyrants in Beijing' of course."
Last spring, hundreds of students of the so-called "Sunflower Movement" occupied Taiwan's parliament in protest. 
That led to a major trade agreement being blocked and a new souring of relations with China. Ketty Chen, deputy director of international affairs for the opposition pro-independent Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), said in a recent interview that the 21 cross-strait agreements were signed too hastily and without proper review.
Today, less than 10% of people support the idea of immediate or eventual reunification -- a figure that has declined consistently over the years. Results of a survey by National Chengchi University in June found that 60% of respondents identified as Taiwanese -- an historic high -- compared to just 3.5% as Chinese. A clear majority supports the political status quo of de facto independence. 
Now, with Beijing rejecting true democracy in Hong Kong -- despite a public backlash -- the idea of "one country, two systems," seems even more unappealing to the people of Taiwan. 
"The leaders in Beijing are afraid that if they give democracy to Hong Kong, then other parts of China, like Xinjiang and Tibet, will also ask for it," said a 17-year old female high school student who lives in Taipei. 
"I hope Taiwan never in my life time reunifies with China. It would be very bad. We would lose our freedom."
"Many people in Taiwan want independence," said a young woman called Febie who manages a small cafe in Taipei, Taiwan's capital. "But that's impossible without the backing of other powerful countries, like the United States. I still think President Ma should be stronger against China."
Kristian McGuire, an independent, Washington-based researcher and volunteer with Taiwan Security Research, says that if peaceful unification is going to happen, it is going to have to come through a democratic process whereby millions of Taiwanese choose to join China. 
"Thus far, it looks like most Taiwanese don't want reunification so long as China remains an authoritarian state with little respect for human rights," he said.
The sculptor, a 22-year-old artist who calls himself "Milk," had yet to title his creation. But passersby were quick to nickname the mannequin "Umbrella Man."
Built of wooden squares, the 10-foot tall statue of a man holding aloft a yellow umbrella has now taken its place alongside the posters, cartoons, banners and calligraphy that now decorate the streets and sidewalks of Hong Kong's Admiralty district.
Since they occupied this area a week and a half ago, pro-democracy protesters have transformed a stretch of concrete highway running through the center of the city into an improvised outdoor gallery of politically-inspired art.
"It's an outpouring of creative talent," exclaimed Douglas Young, a Hong Kong-based designer and entrepreneur, during a recent visit to the protest encampment. 
"Why haven't we seen this before?" asked Young, who also took care to point out that he was not an active supporter of the protest movement.
The sit-in has acted as a magnet attracting artists eager to make their voices heard.
The artist known as Milk told CNN his statue was inspired by the image of a protester holding an umbrella to shield a police officer from the rain.
Most of the other images displayed here also riff on the umbrella and the yellow ribbon, two symbols of the protest movement. 
Last month, protesters used umbrellas -- an accessory Hong Kongers carry to protect themselves from torrential downpours as well as tropical sun -- to shield themselves from pepper spray fired by police.
Less than 48 hours into the occupation, demonstrators erected a globe-shaped monument out of umbrellas above the traffic circle next to the Legislative Council building. Since then, the streets and sidewalks have been plastered with cartoon-like characters holdings umbrellas, accompanied by slogans calling for democracy, freedom and justice.
One of the posters shows a helmeted police officer with riot shield yelling "You're such a thug!" while pointing his finger at an umbrella-toting cartoon that resembles the children's book character Paddington Bear.
The artist who drew the cartoon is a 30-year-old graphic designer Carol Hung.
"My initial idea was to make people laugh in this heavy atmosphere," Hung told CNN.
Hung, who described herself as a political neophyte, said she was inspired to produce a series of protest-inspired drawings after seeing reports of police clashing with protesters on September 28th.
"At the moment I saw the tear gas, it made me want to support the students," Hung said. 
On a recent afternoon, art teacher Josephine Lau sat in the middle of the highway now occupied by students, painting yellow ribbons onto Chinese paper.  She hoped her posters would prove more durable than previous slogans she had made, which were washed away by rainstorms last week.
"We can use different media to express ourselves... to tell people what we feel about Hong Kong," Lau said. "I like the peaceful and silent protest and I'm supporting the students behind the scenes."
Not far away, 17-year-old Timothy Sun was designing his own posters on the asphalt with the slogan "GOV YU NO LISTEN TO US?"
Like many others here, Sun said his favorite piece of art at the protest site was actually a colorful piece of work created by thousands of contributors named the "Lennon Wall."
Thousands of pastel post-it notes bearing messages and drawings written by passersby in many languages coat the curved staircase that runs along the outside wall of one of the government office buildings in Admiralty.
Many of the messages profess love for Hong Kong. The wall serves as proof that, despite young Hong Kongers' freedom to digitally post anything they like on social media, there is still a powerful attraction to expressing oneself using old-fashioned paper and ink.
"This feels very much to me like Twitter, but paper Twitter," observed Young, the businessman and art aficionado. "Old school Twitter, if there's such a thing."
Young, who runs a chain of high-end design stores called Goods of Desire, was quickly inspired to add his own post-it message to the wall.  It was an appeal to Hong Kong's beleaguered top official to preserve the post-it monument: "Mr. Chief Executive, Please don't tear this wall down."
"I see a lot of tenderness, a lot of passion... a lot of imagination, which is fantastic," Young said, while gazing out on the largely empty encampment and its fluttering banners and posters. 
"I wonder where that's from?" he asked. "I wonder where these people will be after this, when it all ends."
In a rare, joint news conference with the global news media inside the heart of Beijing, U.S. President Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged cooperation on a range of common interests as they concluded an unusually colorful economic summit.
Asked about anti-American rhetoric in Chinese state-run media which accused the United States of backing recent democracy protests in Hong Kong, Obama brushed off the criticism as "part of being a public official."
"The United States had no involvement in fostering the protests that took place there," Obama insisted.
Xi appeared to grimace when asked by New York Times reporter Mark Landler about international press access in China and whether he viewed Obama's "pivot" to Asia as an authentic component of U.S. foreign policy.
In a sign of clear annoyance with the setting, Xi initially did not answer the question and moved to hear instead from a Chinese reporter. In response, Xi appeared at times to read a prepared statement.
"We don't see eye to eye on every issue. Both sides should respect each other's core interests," Xi said, adding the two nations should manage their differences respectfully.
Xi, however, went on to take note of international criticism of China's human rights record.
"China has made enormous progress in its human rights. That is a fact," Xi said, conceding that his nation's work in that area is not "mission accomplished."
Before finishing his remarks, Xi responded to Landler's question, accusing The New York Times of causing its own access problems in China.
Obama added he had an opportunity to stress to Xi that the Asia "pivot" is not an attempt to challenge China's leadership in the region.
Xi and Obama fielded only two questions, one from Landler, the other from a reporter representing China's state-controlled news media.
Still, the news conference was the culmination of weeks of intense negotiations between high-level White House and Chinese officials who initially balked at the idea.
U.S. officials were confident the press event marked one of the only known occasions in which a Chinese leader had taken an unscripted question from an American journalist in China.
Following five hours of discussions that included a close circle of Chinese and U.S. officials Tuesday night, the two leaders also announced a new climate agreement that would cut U.S. greenhouse gas emissions by nearly one-third from 2005 levels by 2025. China would peak its carbon emissions no later than 2030 and increase the use of nonfossil fuels to 20% also by 2030.
"This is an ambitious goal, but it is an achievable goal," Obama said about the climate deal.
"China is ready to work with the U.S. to make progress in a number of priority areas," Xi added.
The Obama administration is confident it can avoid any potential stumbling blocks for the climate agreement next year when Republicans take control of the Senate.
"Congress may try to stop us, but we believe that with control of Congress changing hands we can proceed with the authority we already have," a senior administration official said on a conference call with reporters.
Obama arrived in Beijing for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit still wounded politically by his party's stinging defeat in last week's congressional midterm elections.
But the U.S. President managed to string together a slew of modest trade and diplomatic agreements with Beijing that will loosen visa restrictions for Chinese travelers and cut tariffs on high-tech American products.
China maximized its position as APEC summit host, staging an Olympics-caliber dinner spectacular complete with fireworks.
Obama drew howls in the Chinese media when he was seen chewing gum as he entered Monday night's festivities.
Russian President Vladimir Putin earned a few cringes of his own when he placed a shawl around the shoulders of China's first lady in an apparent act of chivalry. She promptly removed the garment, creating such a stir the incident was removed from China's state-run news outlets.
Chinese censors attempted to further block coverage of the story by blacking out a portion of a CNN segment on the incident on the network's "Anderson Cooper 360" program.
Obama is scheduled to attend a state banquet with his Chinese counterpart before departing for Myanmar for a gathering of leaders at this week's Association of Southeast Asian Nations summit. The president's visit is also designed to check on Myanmar's efforts to expand democratic reforms in the Southeast Asian nation. 
Protesters have occupied major districts in Hong Kong to demand full universal suffrage for the city, a culmination of decades of frustration among the city's democracy activists. But as protests in this city enter a stubborn eighth week, there hasn't been any real breakthrough. 
Protesters continue to stake their ground while the Hong Kong police attempt to clear areas of the occupied sites. Student leaders and government officials have conducted one round of talks with little result, and no new talks are planned.
Here's our guide to understanding the different players, what they want, and why there's no easy solution.
Last year, law professor Benny Tai came up with the idea to "occupy" Hong Kong's downtown Central district if the government didn't give Hong Kongers full universal suffrage. His Gandhi-inspired group is called "Occupy Central with Love and Peace."
But Occupy Central didn't kick off the current protests. Things blew up in late September after three pro-democracy student leaders were briefly arrested at the end of a class boycott, and their supporters tear gassed. That's when tens of thousands of protesters spontaneously came out to occupy Hong Kong's streets, leading to the situation we have now.
The most famous student leader is a skinny 17-year-old named Joshua Wong  -- he leads a group of high school firebrands called Scholarism, and enjoys popular support among protesters.
Also arrested were Alex Chow and Lester Shum from the Hong Kong Federation of Students (HKFS), representing university students. Chow and Shum are asking protesters to continue occupying the streets until the government offers a meaningful promise of electoral reform. 
On November 15, Chow and two other members of HKFS attempted to fly to Beijing to deliver protesters' demands to Chinese leaders, but were prevented from boarding an airplane after their travel permits were declared invalid.
The students have one main demand: to bring "real universal suffrage and real democracy" to the city.
The occupied sites are fragile but sophisticated self-governed communities. 
While Tai may have come up with the idea to "occupy" and student leaders incited the protest, citizen protesters have now taken ownership of the movement, which they view as organic and leaderless.
The number of protesters at the main camp varies, but when crowds are large it can feel like a cross between a summer music festival and a post-apocalyptic settlement. 
The site sprawls across an eight-lane highway in Hong Kong's Admiralty district, spilling out into side streets fortified by makeshift barricades. A well-oiled volunteer system manages supplies, recycling and first-aid. Each night, protesters sleep in colorful tents on the pavement.
Three miles north, protesters have occupied some of the busiest streets in Mong Kok, a gritty, working-class shopping district famous for its thumping nightlife and triad ties. 
The atmosphere here is more riotous. In early October, the encampment was attacked by crowds of older men who tore down tents, attacked students, and allegedly sexually assaulted women in broad daylight. Outraged supporters have rallied to the camp's defense, while police have struggled -- and often failed -- to keep the peace. 
In mid-October, the Mong Kok camp was cleared by around 500-600 police in a dawn raid. However, protesters returned in huge numbers the next day and reoccupied the streets after a series of tense clashes with police. No major police action has been attempted since, and protesters show no signs they're willing to leave.
There is a third, smaller encampment in Causeway Bay, Hong Kong's shopping district, which stretches across one lane of a busy road.
C.Y. Leung, Hong Kong's chief executive, is hated with a passion by the city's pro-democracy citizens, who view him as an sly, imperious puppet of the Chinese Communist Party. And that's putting it politely.
His resignation has been a key demand of protesters since they took to the streets a week ago. Leung has repeatedly said he won't step down. Instead, he has repeatedly asked protesters to disperse, while directing his deputy Carrie Lam to attempt negotiations with student leaders. 
In late October, Lam and four officials met with student leaders from HKFS for a round of televised talks. However, no agreement was reached after the talks, and no new talks are planned. 
It's doubtful whether Leung's administration can make any real concessions to protesters. The Hong Kong government's hands are largely tied by Beijing, which has firmly stated it will not allow Hong Kong to have the kind of democracy protesters are calling for.
Many Hong Kongers oppose the Occupy protests, and for many different reasons.
Some see the protesters as chasing a pipe dream, others say it's a mistake to upset Beijing. 
Older generations are especially wary of civil unrest, having fled Communist China, lived through Hong Kong's leftist riots in 1967 and witnessed the Tiananmen square crackdown on pro-democracy protesters on their television screens in 1989.
What they all share is a deep disdain for the way today's protests are affecting the lives of ordinary citizens. With roads blocked, traffic has been snarled, commutes have been disrupted. In Mong Kok, some business owners have reported a dramatic decline in sales. 
A number of anti-Occupy voices have formed groups. Former journalist Robert Chow calls his group the "Silent Majority for Hong Kong," and says the protesters are "holding Hong Kong hostage." 
The police's goal is to return the city to normal, but they miscalculated by using tear gas on student protesters on September 28. Instead of dispersing the movement, it sparked outrage and caused thousands more protesters to hit the streets.
Since then, police, hesitant to inflame tensions, have adopted a largely hands-off approach to the protest sites. In mid-October, police briefly cleared the Mong Kok protest site, only for thousands of protesters to reoccupy the site the next day.
Relations between police and protesters also deteriorated when a video showed several plainclothes police officers beating and kicking a detained pro-democracy demonstrator in October.
Multiple people with triad backgrounds have been arrested in Mong Kok after starting fights and igniting anger between Occupy and anti-Occupy protesters.
Hong Kong's triads are known for controlling smuggling, prostitution and illegal gambling rings. Some of their businesses in Mong Kok -- Hong Kong's red light district -- have suffered as a result of the Occupy protests. 
While pro-democracy legislators and protest leaders have accused the government of sending triad members to disperse the protests, it's unclear who may have sent the triads or whether they came on their own accord.
China's president, Xi Jinping, dreads dissent and separatism. As China's economy continues to grow, he has been eager to project an image of national unity and strength to the world. 
At the APEC summit in November, Xi called the protests an "illegal movement" and declared his support for the Hong Kong government's handling of the situation. 
Beijing has also expressed its views through its state-run media, condemning the protests as "illegal acts" that "are doomed to fail." Chinese newspapers have dismissed the movement's potential to spread to the mainland as "no more than a daydream."
Other news articles, social media posts, and images of Hong Kong's protests have been heavily censored in China: as the first images of the occupation went viral, even Instagram became inaccessible.
The memory of China's 1989 Tiananmen square crackdown on pro-democracy protesters has loomed over Hong Kong and Beijing from the start. More than once, protesters have wondered whether Beijing will activate the 6,000 People's Liberation Army troops believed to be stationed in Hong Kong -- but so far, there's been no sign that will happen.
It's obvious China is displeased. What's less certain is how serious of a threat they consider the protests to be.
Hong Kong student protest leaders Joshua Wong and Lester Shum were among those arrested amid heated confrontations as authorities attempted to clear demonstration camps in the Mong Kok district for a second day.
Wong, the 18-year old founder of the secondary school activist group Scholarism, and Shum, deputy secretary general of the Hong Kong Federation of Students, were arrested after police and bailiffs moved to clear barricades on Nathan Road in the bustling commercial area, a spokeswoman for the student federation told CNN.
By midday Wednesday, authorities had cleared barricades and tents from the long-established protest camp.
Prior to his arrest, Shum told CNN he urged protesters to remain on the streets until the "last second."
"We will still conduct our civil disobedience action until the last second, until the plaintiffs or the police arrest us," he said.
Bailiffs have been engaged to clear the Mong Kok protest camps in accordance with a court order obtained by local business interests, following complaints that the protests have disrupted life in parts of the city for nearly two months. 
Police warned that anyone obstructing the bailiffs in their work would face charges of contempt of court or obstructing an officer.
Some protesters were seen assisting authorities in dismantling shelters, as police ordered demonstrators disperse and not to interrupt the clearance. Others were tackled to the ground and detained by police during the clearance efforts.
The police action followed a night of heated clashes between police and protesters, after authorities attempted to clear another road in Mong Kok, Argyle Street, Tuesday. 
As of 6am Wednesday morning Hong Kong time, 116 people had been arrested during the confrontation in Mong Kok, according to Alice Tam of the Police Public Relations Branch. Offenses included resisting police, illegal assembly, possession of weapons and attacking police.
Lawmaker and pro-democracy activist Leung Kwok-hung, commonly known as "Long Hair," was among those arrested, his office confirmed.
Tuesday's clearance effort began peacefully, with some protesters indicating their intention to relocate to other protest camps peacefully. But events spiraled into violence as crowd numbers swelled, with police dressed in riot gear spraying liquid referred to by local media as "tear water" toward the crowd to drive them back.
Police warned protesters to retreat, displaying banners that read: "Stop charging, or we use force."
As the situation Tuesday night escalated, activists issued calls on social media for reinforcements. The Hong Kong Federation of Students' tweeted: "More support urgently needed in Mong Kok! Bring helmets, (goggles), shields, umbrellas, towels and be careful!"
As bailiffs announced their intention to clear the site Tuesday morning, protesters joined in chants calling for universal suffrage and demanding the resignation of Hong Kong's chief executive, C.Y. Leung.
Prior to leaving on a trip to South Korea on Tuesday, Leung said he had confidence in police to handle the situation in Mong Kok and said the government remained willing to engage in dialogue on political reform.
Pro-democracy protesters have occupied camps in parts of the city for nearly two months, and maintain a main protest site outside government buildings in Admiralty on Hong Kong Island.
Calling for universal suffrage, they want to be able to nominate candidates for the election of the city's chief executive in 2017. Instead, China's National People's Congress has said they'll be able to vote only for candidates from a short list approved by a pro-Beijing committee.
Currently, the chief executive is elected by a specially appointed 1,200-member election committee.
At the peak of the protests in early October, tens of thousands of people were on the streets at three locations. But numbers have dwindled as the protests have continued, and recent local polling suggests support has dipped.
In a random survey of 513 people conducted by the University of Hong Kong, 83% said pro-democracy protesters should cease their occupation of major roads in Hong Kong, while just 13% said the protests should continue.
Prior to his arrest, Shum told CNN there were no plans to give up the protests.
"The most urgent step is to revoke the August 31 NPC decision. The political reform problem starts from there," he said, referring to the Chinese central government's controversial decision to impose vetting restrictions on who could run as a candidate for Hong Kong's top office.
"If the Chinese communist party refuses to, or the Hong Kong government does not reflect how Hong Kong people think, we urge them to deny the political reform bill in the Legislative Council and restart the whole political process again."
He said the decision on whether to remain on the streets and face violence or arrest was each individual protester's own to make.
"I believe it is a personal or individual decision, because everyone has different degrees of consequences that they have to face alone," he said.
Japanese fishermen have captured a rare albino dolphin and killed 11 other dolphins in a shallow cove, according to conservation activists protesting the hunt.
The albino dolphin currently sits in a small holding pen where it is being trained to eat dead fish and adapt to human interaction, said members of the Sea Shepherd conservationist group, which monitors dolphin hunts in the region. 
They speculate the rare dolphin will be sold for up to $500,000 to be displayed in captivity.
The controversial hunt takes place annually between September and March in Taiji, Japan. Most dolphins are killed for their meat, while some are sold live to aquariums around the world. 
Locals defend the hunt, a long-held tradition, as no different than slaughtering any other animal for meat. 
"This brutal hunt is carnage carried out in the name of profit, not culture," said Melissa Sehgal, a Sea Shepherd campaign coordinator. "These dolphins do not belong to Japan; they belong to the ocean."
The group says that 15 pods of Risso's dolphins have been slaughtered in the cove since this year's hunting season began, with approximately 170 Risso's dolphins killed. 
The Taiji Town Office declined CNN's request for comment on Sea Shepherd's newest report. 
Joshua Wong, the most prominent of Hong Kong's student protest leaders, alleged he was assaulted by police who used excessive force -- including repeatedly grabbing his genitals -- during his arrest at pro-democracy demonstrations.
Wong, 18, made the claims after appearing in court Thursday charged with obstructing officers clearing a protest site in the city's Mong Kok district the day earlier.
Wong's lawyer, Michael Vidler, told CNN his client had been "clearly targeted by police." 
"Excessive force was used and he was assaulted while he was on the ground," said Vidler. 
"Police kicked and punched him and effectively sexually assaulted him -- his private parts were grabbed repeatedly and painfully. We're considering our next steps and will decide over the next few days how to proceed."
Footage of Wong's arrest shows the teenager being suddenly rushed by a man wearing a police vest, then forcefully dragged away and disappearing beneath a huddle of police officers.
Wong, who had earlier been filmed in heated but non-violent exchanges with people clearing the road of barricades, later tweeted he had lost his signature glasses during the arrest.
In response to Wong's claims, police issued a statement saying that if anyone believed they had been treated unfairly by police, they could take action through the Complaints Against Police Office.
Vidler said Hong Kong police were displaying "increasingly brutal" behavior as the protests entered their third month.
"People are learning the other side of the Hong Kong police and it's not an attractive side," he said.
Seven Hong Kong police officers were arrested this week for an alleged assault at a pro-democracy protest in October, in which officers were filmed apparently punching and kicking a demonstrator on a side street. 
The alleged victim, a social worker and member of the 1,200-strong election committee that currently chooses Hong Kong's leader, was photographed with facial bruising and numerous welts on his back in the wake of the incident.
Wong was granted bail Thursday, along with two other prominent protest leaders arrested in the efforts to clear the Mong Kok site -- Lester Shum, of the Hong Kong Federation of Students, and Leung Kwok-hung, an activist and lawmaker known as "Long Hair." 
The trio was released under the condition they steer clear of parts of Mong Kok, and their cases will be heard in January.
Speaking to reporters after his court appearance, Wong denied the charge against him, saying he had had no physical conflict with officials working to clear the protest site.
Following his remarks, he was pelted with eggs by members of the public. Police said two men, aged 26 and 32, had been arrested and charged with common assault over the incident.
After his court appearance, Shum also told reporters he had been violently arrested, and complained that the bail restriction banning him from parts of Mong Kok was unreasonable, as the Federation of Students' office was in the district.
The protest leaders were among nearly 200 people arrested in Mong Kok since police began a major operation Tuesday to clear two main thoroughfares in the district of protesters.
Standoffs between police and protesters continued throughout the week into Friday night, when 28 people were arrested for charges including unlawful assembly, assaulting police, possessing an offensive weapon and hindering police officers, police said.
Protesters calling for universal suffrage have occupied camps around the semi-autonomous Chinese territory for two months, including a main protest site outside government buildings in Admiralty on Hong Kong Island.
They want to be able to nominate candidates for the election of the city's chief executive in 2017; China's central government has said they'll be able to vote only for candidates approved by a pro-Beijing committee.
Mong Kok has been the site of some of the most violent clashes of a predominantly peaceful protest movement. Authorities began clearing the streets of barricades and shelters Tuesday in accordance with court injunctions obtained by local business interests, following complaints that the protests have disrupted commercial life in the city.
The operation sparked occasionally heated clashes with protesters, and prompted threats by demonstrators to reoccupy the site.
But on Friday morning, Wong called for protesters in Mong Kok to relocate at the other protest sites in Admiralty and Causeway Bay instead.
In comments to a local radio station, he said the protest movement lacked the manpower to occupy three sites, and cited concerns about police enforcement in Mong Kok.
As well as the alleged use of excessive force during protests, police have used a pepper spray-like solution in confrontations with protesters.
In tweets, Wong also called on fellow protesters to continue their fight. "I ask my friends not to surrender. We still have a chance to battle once more," he wrote.
On Thursday, a spokeswoman for the Hong Kong Federation of Students, Yvonne Leung, indicated the group might also shift its focus to government buildings in order to build pressure against the city's leaders.
"I think we have made it very clear that if they [the police] continue the violent way of clearing up the place, we will have further actions," Leung told public broadcaster Radio Television Hong Kong (RTHK).
"The further actions include a possibility of some escalations pointed at government-related buildings or some of the government-related departments."
Following the clearance of the Mong Kok thoroughfares, Hong Kong Chief Executive C. Y. Leung urged people to return to the busy commercial precinct to go shopping, RTHK reported.
Three co-founders of a pro-democracy organization that's been demonstrating for weeks in Hong Kong reported to police Wednesday, though other groups -- hunger strikers among them -- remain out in force, demanding sweeping reforms on the island.
The three leaders of Occupy Central with Love and Peace, all middle-aged men, announced their intention to surrender to police a day earlier and encouraged student protesters to stand down, too.
But their younger counterparts aren't budging for the time being, despite the recent loss of one key protest site and clashes with police at the demonstrators' main encampment earlier this week.
"For the sake of the occupiers' safety, for the sake of our original intention of love and peace, as we prepare to surrender, we three urge the students to retreat," Benny Tai, one of the three Occupy co-founders, said at a news conference Tuesday.
Tai, a law professor, first came up with the idea to "occupy" downtown Hong Kong to call for universal suffrage, but he has not always been on the same page as student leaders, who launched the current protests two months ago.
Those other groups, Scholarism and the Hong Kong Federation of Students, haven't given any indication they will budge in their demands, chief among them that citizens be allowed to elect their next leader from an open field of candidates rather than those preselected by a committee loyal to the Chinese government.
Earlier this fall, the two groups even penned an open letter urging Chinese President Xi Jinping to closely consider their cause.
"There will only be more citizens, disillusioned with our corrupted institutions, marching and protesting, as long as no genuine democracy is practiced in this place," they wrote.
Some Scholarism members are waging a hunger strike in an effort to secure talks with the Hong Kong government to demand democracy.
Yet, in a statement Wednesday, Chief Executive C.Y. Leung's office urged them to "take good care of their health" and said that "expressing views on constitutional reform through illegal and confrontational means is bound to be futile."
The request by some Scholarism members to conduct dialogue with the government on relaunching "constitutional reform will not and could not be (accepted) by the government (because) it is impractical and has contravened the legal procedures," Leung's office said.
Tai and the other two co-founders, Chan Kin-Man and Chu Yiu-Ming, left the police station in central Hong Kong after about an hour Wednesday.
Tai told reporters outside that they were asked to record their particular offenses committed during the protest movement and then told they were free to go. He said they were not given a date of when they need to return to the police station. 
Police said 24 people, ages 33 to 82, surrendered at the police station Wednesday "for the offense of 'taking part in an unauthorized assembly.' "
Many of the people taking part in the decentralized protest movement do not consider the Occupy founders to be their leaders, and they are unlikely to be influenced by Tai's call for retreat.
The Hong Kong teenager who has become the face of pro-democracy protests in the city ended his hunger strike on Saturday for health reasons.
Joshua Wong started the hunger strike on Monday, December 1, telling CNN it was the "only way" to get the government to agree to talks.
A statement on his Facebook page said that the strike lasted for 108 hours and he ended it on the advice of his doctor.  He said he felt "extremely unwell" and his blood sugar was very low. 
The 18-year-old activist, who leads a student group called Scholarism, wants open elections for Hong Kong's next leader, but Beijing has said Hong Kong may only hold elections if candidates are nominated by a small committee. 
Wong's hunger strike was seen as an attempt to rally a movement which has shown growing signs of fracture.
Protesters have camped more than two months on an eight-lane highway in Hong Kong's Admiralty district, but the government has shown no willingness to make concessions. 
The movement's momentum has sputtered and leaders of different protest groups are split over what action to take.
CNN International crowned 'Cable & Satellite Channel of the Year' at Asian TV Awards for second year running
For the second consecutive year, CNN International won the coveted 'Cable & Satellite Channel of the Year' at the 2014 Asian Television Awards in Singapore on Thursday. It was also named 'Cable & Satellite Network of the Year'. 
The Best News Program title went to CNN flagship program News Stream. Hosted by CNN anchor Kristie Lu Stout in Hong Kong and produced by Ravi Hiranand, News Stream is a daily hard-news show that uses technology and social media to give viewers a deeper understanding of the day's top stories. 
Kristie Lu Stout was also awarded Best Current Affairs Presenter. The anchor and correspondent is among the network's most popular Asia-based faces, and also fronts CNN's monthly On China show. 
Lu Stout has also led coverage of major breaking news stories for CNN, most recently covering the 'Umbrella Movement' pro-democracy protests from the heart of Hong Kong. This is the second Asian Television Award for Lu Stout during her 14 years with CNN International. 
The CNN Freedom Project: Every Day in Cambodia, which exposed the horrors of child sex trafficking, was awarded Best Documentary Series. CNN's investigation, spearheaded by human rights activist and Academy Award-winning actress Mira Sorvino, uncovered an underground system specializing in the sale of pre-pubescent girls. 
In the gripping documentary, CNN followed the story of three girls sold into sex slavery as 'virgins' by their own mothers. Every Day in Cambodia is part of the CNN Freedom Project initiative, which has been honored extensively for its ongoing efforts to bring modern-day slavery to an end. 
Executive Vice President and Managing Director of CNN International, Tony Maddox, said: "After an extraordinary 12-month news cycle, it's an absolute honor to receive these awards and be recognized by our peers for the work we do. 
"To be named both Cable & Satellite Channel of the Year plus Cable & Satellite Network of the Year is truly remarkable, and is a testament to the dedication and talent of our teams in Asia and around the globe. Kristie Lu Stout and the News Stream team live and breathe news, and are always willing to go the extra mile to tell the stories that matter. It's great to see that passion recognized in this way.
"I am also proud the CNN Freedom Project has been recognized again. Human trafficking is a shameful trade that must be stopped. At CNN we will continue to use the full range of our international resources to track and champion the story." 
CNN International earlier this year won an award for its Typhoon Haiyan coverage as well as being crowned News Channel of the Year at the Royal Television Society Awards.
The students that formed the "Umbrella Movement" -- named for the humble umbrella used to protect against tear gas and pepper spray -- are morose but defiant, and more alienated than ever.  
Pro-government supporters have transformed from being rather passionless parrots of the Beijing line into fire-breathing zealots demanding Hong Kong police bash the heads of anyone stepping into the streets.
The "Occupy Central" protests make the upcoming annual policy address by the city's leader, Chief Executive C.Y. Leung, in mid January the most critical since Hong Kong reunified with China in 1997. 
Continuing to stand firm and largely ignore protesters won't fix the sources of so much "turmoil" -- a term associated with the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre and controversially used in the South China Morning Post's headline on Occupy Central's ending.
The governments in Hong Kong and Beijing must demonstrate clear understanding of what drove so many to protest so long. 
Unless the diagnosis is correct, prescriptions of "medicines" will do more harm than good.
Leung must show he listens to everyone, that he cares, and that he will take action¡Xdecisive, but fair action.
Research shows one crucial value¡Xbelief in a level playing field¡Xhas become deeply damaged.
Hong Kongers once widely believed with hard work, some sacrifice and good education, anyone could improve their circumstances and achieve a good livelihood. 
Tycoons like Li Ka-Shing were adulated because they started with nothing and worked their way up. 
Today many fewer than before think hard work, sacrifice and good education can lead to better lives.  Indeed, many more believe government policy-making is unfair. 
As proof this is one major cause of unrest, the protest movement caught fire when local government officials refused to meet students demanding to be heard. 
Instead, they escorted 70 of the richest Hong Kongers to Beijing for private audiences with national leaders. 
Talking with students, on the other hand, helped to reduce numbers of protestors.  They demanded fair treatment, equal to that given the tycoons.
The promise of a new platform for exchanging views with youth must be fleshed out in the address. 
Leung needs to schedule regular question and answer sessions with students like he already does with the city's chambers of commerce. 
Until those presently excluded from consultation are included, the belief the city's leader unfairly heeds business interests over everyone else will continue to undermine government legitimacy.
Other fundamental causes of unrest stem from unintended consequences of previous decisions.  
A 2010 policy decision privatizing commercial space in public housing estates removed cheap rental access for younger and poorer entrepreneurs making Hong Kong's tycoon-dominated crony capitalism even tougher to break through. 
A real competition policy with teeth that makes sure tycoons compete equally with everyone else for business is essential. 
Rationalizing the hodgepodge of retirement ages and pension provisions into something simplified, consistent and fair is a must. 
Many youth resent being unfairly burdened with aging family members, and government shows very little awareness or sense of urgency. 
A proposal this year to extend the retirement age for civil servants to 65 prompted demands from unions to raise it immediately. 
People must be truly desperate.  Elsewhere, proposing to raise the retirement age sparks protests.  Here, it sparks demands for immediate implementation. 
Another source of unrest is the sheer press of numbers on our limited space.
I strongly supported the decision to finally extend easier entry for mainland Chinese visitors in 2003. 
However, from a too low number of 8.5 million mainland tourists arriving in 2003, we now very likely have too many for our infrastructure to handle. 
With 40.7 million mainland Chinese visitors, we are likely hitting capacity. 
Hong Kong needs central and local government officials who understand life's daily pressures and stress points. 
Perhaps Hong Kong should imitate what President Xi Jinping's anti-corruption policies have unleashed on the mainland:
Officials getting out of their chauffeured cars, giving up their maid service and joining the rest of us standing in long lines. 
And that is why Occupy Central demanded that the next election for the city chief executive be fair. 
Until they do, Occupy Central's promise/threat of "we'll be back" is probably right.
Geography, weather, civics and science all factor heavily into our show this Tuesday. We cover meteorological and mysterious events in Asia, and we bring you a report on a how a college project turned into a NASA drone that could help explore the universe. Also featured: counter-protests in Hong Kong and a unique view of our nearest star.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show. 
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
Ebola has arrived in the U.S. Today on CNN Student News, find out how this case differs from that of others treated in America, and take a tour of a CDC command center focused on Ebola. We also report on the U.S. Secret Service and a recent breach of its White House security, and we update you on protests in Hong Kong and which college major leads to the most lucrative jobs.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show. 
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
This Monday edition of CNN Student News features topics related to geography, science, history, international politics and character. We cover a volcanic eruption in Japan, an Indian mission to Mars, protests in Hong Kong, the study of the brain, and a CNN Hero who's helping meet a hunger for something fresh.
On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call.
Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published.
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show. 
For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call!
