When divers found the teenager's body in the submerged ship, he was wearing a pair of jeans and a light green hoodie.
The simple, human details about Woo-hyuk are noted on a whiteboard, which catalogues descriptions of the bodies recovered from the sunken ferry Sewol. 
They were among the 325 students from a South Korean high school on board the ferry that sank April 16, making up two thirds of the passengers of the ship.
The students attended Danwon High School in Ansan, a city about an hour's drive south from the capital, Seoul. 
The school has lost the majority of its junior year, as well as a dozen teachers. Signs of mourning are everywhere in the surrounding neighborhood.
Yellow ribbons are tied to the school gate, symbolizing hope and solidarity with the dead and missing students' families. 
Many of the messages from other students expressed regret at not being able to help their classmates on the ferry that was traveling from the port city of Incheon to Jeju, a southern resort island, when it began to list and then capsized.
Funerals of students have been taking place in recent days. Before the ceremonies, the hearses have driven into the school grounds for one last visit, a portrait of the dead teenager carried by a person in the passenger seat.
"I feel my heart is being ripped up," said Ryu Chang-ryul, who has lived near the school for nine years. "For three days I haven't eaten. It all hurts too much."
      Kim Young-sook runs a small restaurant near the school. She dressed in black and wept as she spoke with CNN, explaining that students are regular customers. 
      "He used to call me auntie," she said. "He was sitting here playing guitar talking about just how important this trip was to him. I feel so bad that I could not be there. All of us, we could have done something."
A makeshift memorial has been set up in a nearby basketball gymnasium, where hundreds of people file past a wall of flowers in which dozens of photos of dead and missing students are mounted. As well as local visitors, people have driven down from other cities like Seoul to pay their respects.
The school reopened Thursday, but only for students in the final year. About 100 psychiatrists and support staff from across South Korea were on hand to counsel them. Some of the teenagers arrived in hoods or wore caps to cover their faces as they made their way past journalists.
Mental health care professionals will be available to the students for at least two months, said Dr. Kim Hyun-sook, head of the community mental health program in the region. 
      "Koreans, when they experience trauma, they feel anger and sadness but they tend to bottle it up," he said. "We're trying to encourage emotional communication to let those feelings out."
The parents of the dead and missing, meanwhile, cling to photos and videos of their lost loved ones.
Christine Kim taught English to some of the students. Her youngest daughter, Billy, was on board the ferry.
A video on Kim's cell phone shows Billy hula-hooping while wearing a dalmation costume -- a fun-loving teenager.
