The following is a partial transcript of communication between an unidentified crew member aboard the sinking South Korean ferry Sewol and local maritime traffic control centers on Wednesday. 
The discussion lasts more than 30 minutes. For the first 11 minutes the Sewol communicates with the Jeju Vessel Traffic Services Center.  After that, the ship communicates with the Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center. There are references to other nearby ships, which are redacted.
The transcript, translated by CNN, was provided by the South Korean government.  Due to static, CNN could not hear parts of the audio recording to corroborate the transcript.
Sewol: The ship rolled over a lot right now. Cannot move. Please come quickly. We're next to Byeongpung Island.
Jeju Vessel Traffic Services Center: Sewol, this is Harbor Affairs Jeju. Do you have reception? Sewol, this is Harbor Affairs Jeju.
Sewol: Currently, it's impossible to confirm. It is impossible to move as the body of the ship is tilted.
Jeju Vessel Traffic Services Center: Yes, OK. Please put on the life vests and get ready as people may have to abandon ship.  
Jeju Vessel Traffic Services Center:  Yes, we just notified the coast guard. We are in the middle of conversation with Jindo VTS and Wando VTS. So please hold for a moment.
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center: Sewol do you copy?  Sewol do you copy? ...Sewol, Sewol, this is Jindo VTS.
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center: Sewol, this is Jindo VTS. Did the passengers board life raft or rescue boats?
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center:  We are reaching out to nearby fishing boats. ...Please approach as quick as possible. Please actively cooperate in rescue operation.  ...Are the passengers able to escape?
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center:  Sewol, this is Jindo VTS, do you copy? How is the flooded condition?
Sewol: It is listed more than 50 degrees to the port side and people are not able to move from left to right. We've alerted the crew members to wear life jacket and wait. It is impossible to confirm whether or not they wore (life jackets). Crew members are at the bridge and are unable to move. Please hurry.
Sewol: It cannot be confirmed either. We confirmed that several containers on the deck fell, but because we cannot move, we cannot move even by one step from the bridge, we are able to stand by holding onto the wall.
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center:  Patrol boat ETA is 15 minutes. Please broadcast and tell the passengers to wear life jackets. 
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center:  Even if you can't broadcast, please send someone to inform the passengers to wear life jacket or thick clothes.
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center: The captain should make decision to make people escape. We do not know the situation so captain make final decision on passengers' escape. 
Sewol: It is not possible to confirm the flood situation. Coast guards and fishing ships approached by 50 meters and those who are on the port side escaped. We sent out broadcast and it is not easy to move toward the port side. 
