Tethered to an IV drip, 71-year-old Shin Young Ja lies under a thin fleece blanket, nursing a broken back and wracked with survivor's guilt. 
"How could it be that an old woman like me survived and all these young people are still in there?" she says. "It's such a shame."
She hasn't heard from the four friends she was traveling with on board the passenger ferry Sewol when it capsized in the frigid waters of the Yellow Sea on Wednesday morning. 
"I don't think they made it out," Shin says, wiping away tears. "I didn't see their names on the list."
With each passing hour, hopes of finding more survivors have dimmed. By Friday, the death toll had climbed to 28. Rescue workers were scrambling furiously to find the roughly 270 who are still missing. 
It's not lost on Shin that she could have been among the casualties had it not been for the determination of a young man who wouldn't give up when she did. 
The only thing that separated Shin and her four friends  was a matter of a few feet : where they sat on the third floor communal room of the ferry.
"The only reason I made it out was because I was on the other side (of the room) in front of the TV," she says.
Wednesday morning, after finishing breakfast, Shin sat away from her four friends to watch a soap opera. Then she heard screaming as people on one side of the room started "pouring down." 
The ship's announcement blared: "Do not move. Just stay where you are. It's dangerous if you move, so just stay where you are."
 "If we don't move and do anything, it's more dangerous!" Shin recalls one of the men in the room say. 
Ignoring the pain shooting through her back, Shin donned a life jacket and swam across the room to get to those who sought refuge on top of a cabinet. 
She spoke briefly to the young man on the rescue boat. She doesn't know his name, only that he's from Gimpo, an area in the capital Seoul. 
Her family wants to find the man -- "even if we have to put up placards around neighborhood," she says.
 "I'm grateful. I want to thank him. I want to buy him a meal at least or hold his hand or give him a hug. 
