First they said all passengers from the sunken South Korean ferry were rescued. Then they backtracked. 
In this tragedy, officials can't seem to get their stories straight. And the media isn't helping by reporting the mixed messages. 
With at least 28 people dead and hundreds still missing from the unexplained disaster, here's how the misinformation has only fueled frustrations: 
Soon after the ferry began to sink Wednesday, some local media reported that all students aboard the ship have been saved. Of the 475 people on board, more than 300 were high school students headed to a field trip on the island of Jeju. 
The South Korean coast guard initially told CNN in that 368 people had been rescued, and two people were found dead.
But the reality turned out to be far more dire. As of Friday morning, only 179 people had been rescued, YTN and CNN affiliate JTBC said. At least 28 people were dead, and about 270 remained missing. 
In the hours after the sinking, several analysts speculated the ferry may have veered off course and struck an object. 
But the South Korean Oceans and Fisheries Ministry said Thursday that it had approved the boat's intended route, and the actual course did not deviate significantly. 
Yet  later, Kim Soo Hyeon, the chief of South Korea's Yellow Sea Maritime Police Agency said it appears the ship did deviate from its planned route but did not appear it hit a rock. 
Hopes soared for some family members after word spread about social media messages allegedly posted from survivors. 
Messages such as "I am still alive... in the cafeteria please help me my battery is running out please believe me," and "My phone is not working I am inside the boat I can't see anything" spread on social media on Thursday -- as late as over 24 hours after the incident.
News and rumors of texts circulated around families of the missing. The purported texts contained so much detail, they made relatives "surprised and excited," one mother said earlier this week.
This one, however, was not the fault of officials. The messages were reported by local media outlets.
"An investigation from the Police Cyber Terror Response Center verified that all texts in question (from passengers still within the ship) are fake," South Korea police posted on its official Twitter account. 
"We will investigate people sending out these messages," said Lee Sung Yoon, head of the combined police and prosecution team. 
