Through the unrelenting rain, with the biting winds whipping against her tear-stained face, Christine Kim stands on the cold, gray harbor.
"Inside that water," she says, pointing to the choppy waves on the Yellow Sea, "there are children whom I teach and my own child." 
Kim is an English teacher at a private tutoring center. Some of her students were aboard the Sewol headed to the resort island of Jeju when the passenger ferry listed and sank. 
Twenty people were confirmed dead, and 276 were still missing early Friday, according to the South Korean Ministry of Security and Public Administration. One of them is Kim's youngest daughter. 
When the school trip came up at the Anson Daewon High School, her daughter, Billy, was initially reluctant. The family had taken a visit to Jeju less than two months earlier. She didn't want to go on a four-day trip.
Throughout the night Wednesday and into Thursday, family members have camped out at the Paeng Mok Harbor, about 20 kilometers (12 miles) from where the ship capsized. 
They sit on plastic chairs, huddled together for warmth with blankets on their shoulders. They're handed coffee cups and instant noodles as they stand vigil. Mothers and grandmothers cry and console each other. 
One elderly man sits on a chair -- his cell phone in his hands, his hands clasped together as if in prayer. 
"It's been almost 30 hours," Kim says. "I can't sleep because my daughter's in the water, in the cold, cold water -- I can never sleep."
After the accident, local media lit up with reports of text messages they said were from passengers. In one, a passenger describes women screaming in the darkness. In another, a father learns his child is trapped. In a third, a son, fearing death, tells his mother he loves her.
They haven't been authenticated. But they are reason enough for some parents to believe more survivors will be found. 
Kim isn't alone in pointing the finger at the South Korean government. It has failed to expend all necessary efforts to rescue the students, she says. 
Rescue officials say they are at the mercy of the elements. It's drizzling, making for poor visibility. The water currents are powerful, making for dangerous operations. 
Three divers who took it upon themselves to go look for the missing were momentarily swept away by the tide Thursday. A fishing boat eventually picked them up.
The massive rescue efforts has included 169 boats, 29 planes and 512 divers. Crews will next bring in cranes to stabilize the ship.
"The families must be so heartbroken, I know it's hard," South Korean president Park Geun-hye said after touring the accident site Thursday.  
Chang Min, whose second-grade son is among the missing, says he's willing to trust the government "one last time.But Kim is critical. 
The despondent mother breaks into a smile when she talks about how Billy came to pick such a typically American boy's name for herself. 
