A passenger describes women screaming in the darkness. A father learns his child is trapped. A son, fearing death, tells his mother he loves her.
Investigators haven't said what caused a South Korean ferry boat carrying hundreds of passengers to capsize on Wednesday. But as rescuers searched frigid waters for nearly 300 missing people, text messages purporting to be from missing passengers surfaced, describing the harrowing moments after the ferry started to roll.
CNN affiliate YTN reported on several messages, purportedly from passengers aboard the sinking vessel to their loved ones. CNN could not independently confirm the authenticity of the messages or when they were sent. It's also unclear what happened to the people who sent them.
On Thursday, the semi-official Yonhap News Agency reported that police now believe the messages supposedly sent after the ferry sank were fake.
Yonhap cited the Cyber Terror Response Center of the National Police Agency as saying that investigators had checked the cell phone records of missing passengers and found none had made any calls or texts after the ferry sank. It's unclear if other texts, purportedly sent earlier in the incident, were also believed fake.
The messages, widely reported in South Korean media, painted a chaotic picture of the situation aboard the ferry as hundreds of passengers waited for help and some purportedly reached out to loved ones.
"No phone connection so there is no Internet connection. So just sending text message. There are few people on the ship, can't see a thing, it's totally dark. So there are few men and women, women are screaming," says one purported text message from a passenger obtained by CNN.
"There are a few people in the ship," the student writes to his mother, "and we are not dead yet, so please send along this message."
"Mom, in case I won't get to tell you, I'm sending this. I love you," another message says, according to CNN affiliate YTN.
In another exchange described by YTN, a father advises his teenager to go outside to reach rescuers.
Later, the teen writes, "No, Dad, I can't walk now. There are no kids in the hallway. And it is too tilted."
Passengers aboard a sinking South Korean ferry faced a terrifying choice as the vessel rolled: obey commands barked over loudspeakers to stay in place, or don life vests and jump into the chilly ocean water.
"Don't move," a voice warned, according to a recording obtained by CNN affiliate YTN. "If you move, it's dangerous. Don't move."
That announcement, some witnesses worried, may have cost some passengers on the ferry Sewol their lives.
"Kids were forced to stay put," one survivor told CNN affiliate YTN, "so only some of those who moved survived."
As rescuers searched the frigid water for nearly 300 people who remained unaccounted for, witnesses told horrific stories of their final minutes on the sinking ship.   
"We were told to stay where you are, so we kept staying," survivor Hyun Hung Chang told YTN. "But later on, the water level came up. So we were beside ourselves. Kids were screaming out of terror, shouting for help."
At least some of those who jumped or made their way to the top of the ship were rescued. Helicopter crews plucked some from the deck.
Others were pulled from the water by rescuers aboard the multitude of fishing boats and military vessels that raced to the scene as the ship rolled over and capsized.
"I had to swim a bit to get to the boat to be rescued," Lim Hyung Min, one of more than 300 Seoul high school students who was aboard the ship for a four-day field trip, told CNN affiliate YTN. "The water was so cold and I wanted to live."
As of 10:45 a.m. (9:45 p.m. ET Wednesday), of the 475 people who were aboard the ferry when it capsized, there were 287 people missing, and 179 people had been rescued, the coast guard said.
Police are questioning the boat's captain, and maritime police are investigating safety and rescue conditions aboard the ferry, YTN reported. 
A massive rescue operation resumed early Thursday after a delay of several hours, the South Korean Coast Guard told CNN. The reason for the delay was unclear.
Water temperatures in the area are between 50 and 55 degrees Fahrenheit (about 10 to 13 degrees Celsius), CNN meteorologist Brandon Miller said.
Helicopters took off from the U.S. Navy ship USS Bonhomme Richard Thursday to support search efforts, said Lt. Arlo Abrahamson, spokesman for the U.S. Navy in South Korea.
The U.S. ship also has divers aboard who could help with searching if South Korea's government requests it, he told CNN's "Erin Burnett OutFront."
"From the images that I've seen, there's clearly some areas of the hull that are above the water, that are not flooded," Mike Dean, the U.S. Navy deputy director for salvage and diving, told "CNN Tonight." "So absolutely, there could be areas in there where there is breathable air, but the trouble right now is the temperature and getting people to them."
Rescuers are "up against every sort of obstacle," said David Gallo, director of special projects at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.
It began as a routine ocean trip on calm seas. Passengers bound for a resort island were just stirring, some eating breakfast. 
The ship ran into trouble just before 9 a.m. as it steamed toward to Jeju, a resort island considered the Hawaii of Korea.
Passenger Kim Sung-Mook told YTN that he was eating breakfast in the ship's main hall when he felt the ferry begin to tilt.
Someone made the announcement telling passengers to stay in place. Then, he said, he heard a loud bang.
Lim, the rescued student, told YTN he heard the bang before the ship began to list. The tremors knocked shipping containers off balance, he said.
He obeyed orders to stay on the ship until rescuers arrived, threw him a life jacket and told him to jump.
Cell phone video believed to have been taken from inside the ferry shows people wearing life jackets and waiting.
"But suddenly, the water came up to my face," she told YTN. "So I think it was a narrow escape from dying."
The warning over the ferry's loudspeakers may have put passengers' lives at risk, said Mary Schiavo, a CNN analyst and former inspector general for the U.S. Department of Transportation. 
"I think the instruction for those people to remain in place and not get on lifeboats was terribly, tragically wrong," she said.
Kim Petersen, governor emeritus of the Maritime Security Council, said that when crew members aboard the ship issued that warning, it might have been the best course of action.
"The master of the ship, the captain, may well have determined that the vessel was going to remain level and might sink at a steady rate that would allow for the safe exit of people off of the vessel using life rafts, for example, and that would be the preferred way to go," he said. "It may well be that the announcement was made while the captain was under the impression that the vessel was not going to sink quickly. And that events overtook their ability to communicate a change in direction to the passengers."
What caused the ship to sink is unknown. It capsized within two hours of its first distress call, which came just before 9 a.m., Yonhap reported
Peter Boynton, a retired U.S. Coast Guard captain, said the speed with which the ship sank suggested it had sustained "major damage." 
Making matters worse, the ferry carried dozens of vehicles. Once an auto deck is breached, "it's typically open to very significant flooding," Boynton said. That could explain "why the ferry in just a matter of hours began to roll onto its side so quickly."
As authorities searched for answers, heartbroken family members of the missing gathered in Jindo, about 20 kilometers (12 miles) from the site where the ferry sank.
Coast guard boats took some family members clamoring for answers out to the site of the shipwreck early Thursday.
"Can't see a thing, it's totally dark," the message said. "We are not dead yet, so please send along this message."
As almost 300 ferry passengers -- many of whom are high school students -- remain missing amid a massive rescue operation in the Yellow Sea off Korea's southwest coast, the wait on land remains agonizing. 
Many of those rescued had to leap off the side of the capsized ferry into water barely 10 degrees Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit), where they were picked up by one of the multitude of military and fishing vessels on the scene. 
"No phone connection so there is no Internet connection. So just sending text message," says one purported text message from a passenger obtained by CNN. "There are few people on the ship, can't see a thing, it's totally dark. So there are few men and women, women are screaming." 
Even though only a small section of the ferry's hull remains out of the water, rescuers -- including South Korean Special Forces divers -- hope that within the ship isolated pockets of air are able to support passengers still trapped within the vessel.  
"From the images that I've seen, there's clearly some areas of the hull that are above the water, that are not flooded," Mike Dean, the U.S. Navy deputy director for salvage and diving, told CNN Tonight. 
"So absolutely, there could be areas in there where there is breathable air, but the trouble right now is the temperature and getting people to them."
Conditions are not ideal for the rescue effort, with potentially strong winds, fog and tidal currents making things difficult for ships and divers, maritime expert Kim Petersen told CNN.  However he also sounded some hope that air pockets, also known as "voids", could provide those on board with a chance of survival.
"If it had been because of a problem with one of the vehicle doors of course that could cause massive flooding very quickly and reduce the likelihood of voids, but the fact is that this is a vessel that is almost 500 feet in length and its sitting in waters that we believe to be between 70 and 110 feet deep, so there is the strong possibility that there are voids and the possibility of survivors."
However, Petersen warned that the effort to reach those trapped in potential voids will not be easy. 
"The problem now is getting divers down into those areas and bringing those people to the surface. That's going to be a daunting proposition.  
"We still have the issue with cold water and currents but right now the situation is fairly positive for trying to find survivors."
The South Korean ferry that sank dramatically on Wednesday with hundreds of passengers on board had been modified after coming to the country from Japan over a year ago, according to reports on CNN affiliate YTN.
The Sewol -- operated by Chonghaejin Marine Corporation -- regularly plied the Incheon to Jeju route, a journey that usually takes 13-and-a-half hours, according to information from the company's website. 
The Sewol is listed at 146 meters long and with a gross tonnage of almost 7,000 tons. It boasts five cargo and accommodation decks.
It is listed as having a capacity of 921 passengers, but was only carrying a reported 429 when it unexpectedly started taking on water early on Wednesday. Within hours, all that was above the water surface was the bow of the boat.
The ferry was built in a Japanese shipyard 20 years ago and previously operated in that country's waters. It was refitted upon arrival in South Korea in February 2013, YTN reported. The ship's sleeping cabins were reconstructed after its arrival in South Korea, the network said. 
Korea Diving Industry Institute president Jung Yong-hyun, a former general in the Korean Navy and former commander of the Ship Salvage Unit (SSU) told YTN that the refit may have affected the weight of the boat and could be a reason for the accident.
According to Jung, the reconstruction added around 239 tons of weight to the boat from its original form. 
Investigators probing the incident will likely look at various aspects of the boat, including this reconstruction.
"As the center of the weight of the boat becomes higher, it becomes more difficult for the boat to balance," the expert told YTN.
There have been serious ferry accidents in South Korea before. The most recent maritime accident occurred in 1993. This was attributed to overcrowding.
The Sewol, however, was nowhere near capacity on the night of the 15th, when it left Incheon several hours late -- delayed because of heavy fog. 
With difficult circumstances hampering rescue dives -- including tidal currents, choppy, frigid conditions, wind, rain and seabound fog -- more radical engineering solutions are being explored.
At around noon on Thursday local time, workers began trying to pump air into the boat, hoping air pockets might be expanded within the structure, helping to lift the ferry. 
These efforts have proved unsuccessful so far. Authorities say that they will try again when the tide turns.
Analyst Jung Yong-hyun told YTN this method has been used previously, on the Costa Concordia and Cheonhanham warship wrecks, as example.
"The cranes are being moved as fast as possible, the focus is getting them there early," said Choi Myeong-beom, a Ministries of Oceans and Fisheries representative. 
"If the boat has not been stuck into the seabed then we will raise (it to) the surface with cranes and move them to a place where it will be easier to work on them."
The captain of a South Korean ferry wasn't at the helm of his vessel when it capsized, an official said Friday, raising another question about the man who families of the hundreds still missing have blamed most directly and emotionally for his part in the disaster.
Rather than Capt. Lee Joon Suk, the Sewol ferry's third mate was at the wheel when it began listing and ultimately flipped  -- not long after a loudspeaker announcement told passengers to stay put and before only a few lifeboats deployed.
"It is not clear where (the captain) was when the accident occurred, although it is clear that he was not in the steering room before the actual accident happened," state prosecutor Jae-Eok Park said Friday.
Lee was one of at least 179 people rescued soon after Wednesday's sinking. A bigger number -- 271 as of Friday morning, according to the South Korean Coast Guard -- are still considered missing, with 25 confirmed dead.
How this all came to be remains murky two days later, much like the waters surrounding the capsized ship.
Family members of passengers massing on a dock in the Jindo, South Korea, harbor -- about 20 kilometers (12 miles) from where the five-story ship sank -- expressed increasing disgust, frustration and anger over everything from the ferry crew's response to the search-and-rescue effort.
The latter continued on Friday under dreary conditions similar to those that have plagued the area for days. 
No one was rescued Thursday, during which time U.S. Navy Capt. Heidi Agle said two Navy helicopters equipped with special radars could only fly a few hours due to the poor weather. Divers in the water battled against strong currents, frigid water temperatures in the 50s (10 to 15 Celsius) and difficulty seeing more than a few feet ahead.
 "It's extremely difficult," Agle, who said the Navy helicopters were from the USS Bonhomme Richard nearby, told CNN's Wolf Blitzer. "There are heavy currents in the area, so the vessel itself is not stable in the water. So you are, by default, putting divers at risk... There are many, many things that are working against them."
It's a different kind of struggle for those in Jindo, many of them the parents of more than 300 Seoul high school students who'd been heading to a four-day island holiday.
Wearing ponchos to fend off the rain, some of them could be heard crying in the face of the grim situation. Others demanded answers from Lee, chanting, "Captain, come out."
He didn't talk directly to them, but ferry Capt. Lee Joon Suk did emerge Thursday at a South Korean Coast Guard office. His head and face covered, he broke down in tears when reporters asked him if he had anything to say.
The vast majority of the ship is underwater, and potential survivors in a part of the hull above water may have to deal with hypothermia and lack of oxygen.
They continue to operate under the assumption there are more survivors, hoping trapped passengers found pockets of air. Images show parts of the hull visible above water and presumably not flooded.
"Absolutely, there could be areas in there where there is breathable air, but the trouble right now is the temperature and getting people to them," Mike Dean, the U.S. Navy deputy director for salvage and diving, told "CNN Tonight."
More than 170 ships and more than 500 divers have swarmed the ferry site, though they are hampered by relentless rain, whipping winds and thick fog in addition to strong currents and murky waters.
CNN affiliate YTN reported that the Coast Guard said eight divers planned to enter the ship's cafeteria on Friday afternoon.
This comes as part of a multi-faceted effort, including possibly pumping oxygen in the vessel and trying to raise the vessel. 
Kim Soo Hyeon, the chief of South Korea's Yellow Sea Maritime Police Agency, has said that authorities are "leaning toward" the latter option. Two cranes were at the scene early Friday, with a third scheduled to be there later in the day.
Despite government assurances that rescuers would work around the clock to save lives, some relatives were angry about the pace of the operation.
"If the government cares for the people, our family, our children, please rescue our families and our children," said Chang Min, whose second-grade son is among the missing.
One factor seemingly working against a miracle is that most passenger bedrooms are on the fourth level of the five-floor boat, which is now upside down. Divers tried at least six times to enter the submerged cabins but were unable to get in, Kim said.
Surviving passengers told YTN that --as the ship began to list sharply about the same time as loud banging sounds were heard -- they were urged to stay put.
"Don't move," a voice warned, according to a recording obtained by YTN. "If you move, it's dangerous. Don't move."
Rescue helicopters plucked some passengers from the ship as the vessel lay on its side before capsizing. Crews of fishing boats and military ships that raced to the scene in a heavily used sea lane pulled others from the water.
Social media video acquired by CNN affiliate JTBC showed at least 12 of the white survival capsules still attached to the ferry even as it was keeled over in the water.
It was unclear, however, exactly how many lifeboats had deployed. Initial reports from YTN said it was one, but the JTBC video shows what appears to be two lifeboats next to the ship.
Why did it happen? South Korean media has reported investigators are probing the possibility the ship may have taken a sharp turn, causing vehicles and cargo aboard to shift and forcing the ship off balance.
Kim, the maritime police chief, said it appears the ship deviated from its planned route but that it did not appear it hit a rock. That information conflicted with an earlier statement by a spokesman for the South Korean Oceans and Fisheries Ministry, who said the ship was not significantly off its planned course.
"We deeply apologize to the families, and I'm saying once again we're really sorry," Chonghaejin executive Kim Young-bung said. 
The president of the company tried to venture out to the sunken ferry, but he collapsed and was taken to a hospital.
U.S. President Barack Obama was among those who offered his condolences to his country's staunch ally, in addition to assistance from his country's Navy.
Yet at the Paeng Mok Harbor in Jindo, little could console the family members of the missing who passed hour after hour staring at the water and their cell phones, hoping for a call or text indicating a miracle.
Heartbreaking text messages said to be from missing passengers amplified the grief, but the semiofficial Yonhap News Agency reported that police had concluded messages purportedly sent from the sunken ship were faked.
Some parents took a boat toward the accident site, YTN said. But the boat turned back after several of them became so distraught that they fainted.  
Christine Kim's daughter didn't want to go on her school's field trip to Jeju. After all, she had just visited the island two months ago.
Now, she's full of guilt as she waits at the dreary harbor. She's been sitting in the cold rain for more than a day.
Through the unrelenting rain, with the biting winds whipping against her tear-stained face, Christine Kim stands on the cold, gray harbor.
"Inside that water," she says, pointing to the choppy waves on the Yellow Sea, "there are children whom I teach and my own child." 
Kim is an English teacher at a private tutoring center. Some of her students were aboard the Sewol headed to the resort island of Jeju when the passenger ferry listed and sank. 
Twenty people were confirmed dead, and 276 were still missing early Friday, according to the South Korean Ministry of Security and Public Administration. One of them is Kim's youngest daughter. 
When the school trip came up at the Anson Daewon High School, her daughter, Billy, was initially reluctant. The family had taken a visit to Jeju less than two months earlier. She didn't want to go on a four-day trip.
Throughout the night Wednesday and into Thursday, family members have camped out at the Paeng Mok Harbor, about 20 kilometers (12 miles) from where the ship capsized. 
They sit on plastic chairs, huddled together for warmth with blankets on their shoulders. They're handed coffee cups and instant noodles as they stand vigil. Mothers and grandmothers cry and console each other. 
One elderly man sits on a chair -- his cell phone in his hands, his hands clasped together as if in prayer. 
"It's been almost 30 hours," Kim says. "I can't sleep because my daughter's in the water, in the cold, cold water -- I can never sleep."
After the accident, local media lit up with reports of text messages they said were from passengers. In one, a passenger describes women screaming in the darkness. In another, a father learns his child is trapped. In a third, a son, fearing death, tells his mother he loves her.
They haven't been authenticated. But they are reason enough for some parents to believe more survivors will be found. 
Kim isn't alone in pointing the finger at the South Korean government. It has failed to expend all necessary efforts to rescue the students, she says. 
Rescue officials say they are at the mercy of the elements. It's drizzling, making for poor visibility. The water currents are powerful, making for dangerous operations. 
Three divers who took it upon themselves to go look for the missing were momentarily swept away by the tide Thursday. A fishing boat eventually picked them up.
The massive rescue efforts has included 169 boats, 29 planes and 512 divers. Crews will next bring in cranes to stabilize the ship.
"The families must be so heartbroken, I know it's hard," South Korean president Park Geun-hye said after touring the accident site Thursday.  
Chang Min, whose second-grade son is among the missing, says he's willing to trust the government "one last time.But Kim is critical. 
The despondent mother breaks into a smile when she talks about how Billy came to pick such a typically American boy's name for herself. 
As rescuers take on the daunting task of finding survivors, family members of the missing passengers are pinning slim hopes on floundering air pockets in the capsized South Korean ferry. 
They know the odds aren't in their favor, particularly after the entire ferry went underwater Friday.  But they point to one especially miraculous tale of survival for their reason for not giving up. 
In May 2013, a tug boat carrying a 12-person crew capsized off the coast of Nigeria. Two divers sent to recover the bodies assumed everyone aboard had died.  After all, the boat was about 100 feet down under the Atlantic Ocean. 
Three days had passed. And when a diver reached for a hand he thought belonged to a corpse, he discovered it was Harrison Okene, the boat's cook.
"The rest of my life is not enough to thank God for this wonder, it is incredible," he told a local newspaper at the time. 
Some have also pointed to the Italian cruise ship Costa Concordia, which ran aground and capsized in January 2012, killing dozens. Some survivors were pulled out after being trapped inside the ship for more than 30 hours. 
As for air pockets, also known as "voids," they could provide those on board with a chance of survival, said maritime expert Kim Petersen said.  
"It's difficult to say since we don't know the cause of the vessel sinking," he said.  "If it had been because of a problem with one of the vehicle doors, of course that could cause massive flooding very quickly and reduce the likelihood of voids.
"But the fact is that this is a vessel that is almost 500 feet in length and it's sitting in waters that we believe to be between 70 and 110 feet deep, so there is the strong possibility that there are voids and the possibility of survivors."
 "When they're in a small compartment ... with an air bubble, they really have to stay calm and breathe shallow and conserve the oxygen in that space," former Navy diver Bobbie Scholley told CNN. 
However, Petersen warned that the effort to reach those trapped in potential voids will not be easy.
"The problem now is getting divers down into those areas and bringing those people to the surface," he said. 
"There are heavy currents in the area. So the vessel itself is not stable in the water. So you are, by default, putting divers at risk," U.S. Navy Capt. Heidi Agle told CNN's Wolf Blitzer. The U.S. Navy is assisting with the South Korean search. 
The water is a frigid 50 F (10 C). At that temperature, exhaustion sets in within one to two hours. And the expected survival time is no more than six hours, CNN meteorologist Samantha Mohr said.  
Still, rescue teams continued to pump air into the hull of the submerged ship Friday. Like the family members, they aren't ready to give up yet.
Tethered to an IV drip, 71-year-old Shin Young Ja lies under a thin fleece blanket, nursing a broken back and wracked with survivor's guilt. 
"How could it be that an old woman like me survived and all these young people are still in there?" she says. "It's such a shame."
She hasn't heard from the four friends she was traveling with on board the passenger ferry Sewol when it capsized in the frigid waters of the Yellow Sea on Wednesday morning. 
"I don't think they made it out," Shin says, wiping away tears. "I didn't see their names on the list."
With each passing hour, hopes of finding more survivors have dimmed. By Friday, the death toll had climbed to 28. Rescue workers were scrambling furiously to find the roughly 270 who are still missing. 
It's not lost on Shin that she could have been among the casualties had it not been for the determination of a young man who wouldn't give up when she did. 
The only thing that separated Shin and her four friends  was a matter of a few feet : where they sat on the third floor communal room of the ferry.
"The only reason I made it out was because I was on the other side (of the room) in front of the TV," she says.
Wednesday morning, after finishing breakfast, Shin sat away from her four friends to watch a soap opera. Then she heard screaming as people on one side of the room started "pouring down." 
The ship's announcement blared: "Do not move. Just stay where you are. It's dangerous if you move, so just stay where you are."
 "If we don't move and do anything, it's more dangerous!" Shin recalls one of the men in the room say. 
Ignoring the pain shooting through her back, Shin donned a life jacket and swam across the room to get to those who sought refuge on top of a cabinet. 
She spoke briefly to the young man on the rescue boat. She doesn't know his name, only that he's from Gimpo, an area in the capital Seoul. 
Her family wants to find the man -- "even if we have to put up placards around neighborhood," she says.
 "I'm grateful. I want to thank him. I want to buy him a meal at least or hold his hand or give him a hug. 
Disgust, anger and shock greeted official statements from South Korean authorities that texts and social media posts from survivors trapped inside the stricken ferry had been faked.
Messages such as "I am still alive... in the cafeteria please help me my battery is running out please believe me," and "My phone is not working I am inside the boat I can't see anything" were spreading on social media on Thursday -- as late as over 24 hours after the incident.
The messages gave extra substance to hope at least some of the hundreds of missing passengers were alive and awaiting rescue.
News and rumors of the texts circulated around families of the missing. The purported texts contained so much detail, they made relatives "surprised and excited," one mother said earlier this week.
The texts also fueled a tense atmosphere at Jindo -- where distraught families viewed them as proof several passengers were alive. This led to remonstrations and the hurling of objects at authorities, who relatives accused of not doing enough to save their children. 
"An investigation from the Police Cyber Terror Response Center verified that all texts in question [from passengers still within the ship] are fake," South Korea police posted on its official Twitter account. 
"Please stop such actions that are causing pain to the families of missing passengers. The malicious distributors of these texts will be strictly dealt with."
South Korea has been gripped by this tragedy and the pronouncement of these fake social posts added to the collective anguish -- especially as social media has been playing a crucial role in relaying information from the site. 
Police successfully put out a call on social media to find any relatives of a rescued six-year-old girl who had been on board with her parents and older brother. 
The revelations of fake posts have added to a growing sense of public confusion, mistrust and escalating frustration -- particularly among the passengers' relatives -- over the handling of the search and rescue operations, media coverage and official releases of information.
Across the country, scheduled festivals, concerts and school field trips are among the events that have been canceled. 
All news and top searched keywords on the main Internet portals remain linked to the ship, while wishes for good news are flooding social media.
"Hoping everyone will be returned to the arms of their families ... Please be strong. Remembering the SEWOL disaster ..." tweeted Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Hyun-Jin Ryu.
"All I can hope for is that our friends will return alive ..." tweeted Kim Min Hyuk, a senior at the high school that sent 325 students and 15 teachers on a field trip aboard the ill-fated ferry.
First they said all passengers from the sunken South Korean ferry were rescued. Then they backtracked. 
In this tragedy, officials can't seem to get their stories straight. And the media isn't helping by reporting the mixed messages. 
With at least 28 people dead and hundreds still missing from the unexplained disaster, here's how the misinformation has only fueled frustrations: 
Soon after the ferry began to sink Wednesday, some local media reported that all students aboard the ship have been saved. Of the 475 people on board, more than 300 were high school students headed to a field trip on the island of Jeju. 
The South Korean coast guard initially told CNN in that 368 people had been rescued, and two people were found dead.
But the reality turned out to be far more dire. As of Friday morning, only 179 people had been rescued, YTN and CNN affiliate JTBC said. At least 28 people were dead, and about 270 remained missing. 
In the hours after the sinking, several analysts speculated the ferry may have veered off course and struck an object. 
But the South Korean Oceans and Fisheries Ministry said Thursday that it had approved the boat's intended route, and the actual course did not deviate significantly. 
Yet  later, Kim Soo Hyeon, the chief of South Korea's Yellow Sea Maritime Police Agency said it appears the ship did deviate from its planned route but did not appear it hit a rock. 
Hopes soared for some family members after word spread about social media messages allegedly posted from survivors. 
Messages such as "I am still alive... in the cafeteria please help me my battery is running out please believe me," and "My phone is not working I am inside the boat I can't see anything" spread on social media on Thursday -- as late as over 24 hours after the incident.
News and rumors of texts circulated around families of the missing. The purported texts contained so much detail, they made relatives "surprised and excited," one mother said earlier this week.
This one, however, was not the fault of officials. The messages were reported by local media outlets.
"An investigation from the Police Cyber Terror Response Center verified that all texts in question (from passengers still within the ship) are fake," South Korea police posted on its official Twitter account. 
"We will investigate people sending out these messages," said Lee Sung Yoon, head of the combined police and prosecution team. 
A South Korean captain, standing in handcuffs before reporters, defended his order to delay the evacuation of his sinking ferry, CNN affiliate YTN reported early Saturday.
The news of Lee Joon Seok's arrest in connection with the sinking that left at least 29 people dead and more than 270 missing came as divers made their way to the third deck inside the wreckage where they found three bodies, according to the South Korean coast guard. 
The divers weren't able to recover the three bodies from a compartment, the coast guard said.  Another 40 dives are planned for Saturday in an attempt to get inside the ferry, the coast guards' Koh Myung Seok told reporters. 
Lee has been charged with abandoning his boat, negligence, causing bodily injury, not seeking rescue from other ships, and violating "seamen's law," state media reported, citing prosecutors and police
The charges against Lee appear to shed some light on what authorities have focused on in their efforts to find out what happened to the ferry making its way Wednesday from Incheon to the resort island of Jeju. It sank in frigid waters 20 kilometers (roughly 12 miles) off the coast of South Korea's southern peninsula.
"Mr. Lee is charged with causing the Sewol ship to sink by failing to slow down while sailing the narrow route and making (a) turn excessively," prosecutor Lee Bong-chang told the semi-official Yonhap news agency. 
"Lee is also charged with failing to do the right thing to guide the passengers to escape and thereby leading to their death or injury."
A South Korean prosecutor said Lee wasn't at the helm of the Sewol when it started to sink; a third mate was at the helm.
"It is not clear where he was when the accident occurred, although it is clear that he was not in the steering room before the actual accident happened," state prosecutor Jae-Eok Park said.
A crew member, described as the third mate, appeared with Lee and, like the captain, the third mate was in handcuffs. The man was identified only as Park. 
It was unclear if he was one of two other crew members who authorities have said also faced arrest in connection with the sinking. 
As the captain left a court hearing early Saturday, police led him to reporters, where he answered questions. 
"The tidal current was strong and water temperature was cold, and there was no rescue boat," Lee told reporters, according to CNN affiliate YTN. "So I had everyone stand by and wait for the rescue boat to arrive."
Lee acknowledged that he plotted the ship's course, and then went to his cabin briefly "to tend to something."
The third mate, who was at the helm of the ship when Lee left, said he did not make a sharp turn. Rather, he said, "the steering turned much more than usual." 
The captain was one of at least 174 people rescued soon after the Sewol began to sink, violating an "age-old rule and internationally recognized rule that a captain must stay on the vessel," maritime law attorney Jack Hickey said. 
"Pretty much every law, rule, regulation and standard throughout the world says that yes, the captain must stay with the ship until all personnel are safely off of the ship, certainly passengers."
Hopes of finding the missing alive dimmed further when the entire boat became submerged Friday. Until then, part of the ship's blue-and-white hull was still poking out of the frigid waters of the Yellow Sea. 
The coast guard said workers continued to pump air into the hull of the submerged ship but could not stop its descent. 
Still, divers breached the hull of the sunken ferry, and two managed to enter the second deck -- the cargo deck, the South Korean coast guard said. But rough waters forced them out. They didn't find any bodies in their brief search. 
The effort was still underway in earnest Saturday morning featuring helicopters circling above the water and about 120 vessels --  from large warships to fishing ships to dinghies -- in the water, in addition to the divers under it.
Four cranes also sit about 500 yards from the focal point, ready to lift the ferry if and when the order comes in. 
Compounding the tragedy, one of those rescued -- a high school vice principal who was on board the ferry along with more than 300 students -- was found hanging from a tree, police said. 
Kang Min Kyu, 52, vice principal of Ansan Danwon High School, was among the first survivors to be rescued. 
Police said he apparently hanged himself, using a belt, from a tree near a gymnasium in Jindo, where distraught relatives of missing passengers have been camping. 
Relatives of passengers expressed increasing disgust and anger about the lack of explanation from the captain and the pace of the rescue effort.
Others camped at a nearby gymnasium and auditorium, desperate to hear any news of their loved ones. Relatives overcome with emotion howled and screamed, but to no avail. 
Any hope for survival largely hinges on whether passengers may be in air pockets within the ship, which isn't unheard of in such cases. 
In May 2013, a tugboat capsized off West Africa. Rescuers pulled out a man from 100 feet below the surface who survived 2<U+00BD> days inside a 4-square-foot air pocket. 
In the hours after the sinking, some analysts speculated the ferry may have veered off course and struck an object. But the South Korean Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries said Thursday that it had approved the boat's intended route, and the actual course did not deviate significantly. 
But Kim Soo Hyeon, chief of South Korea's Yellow Sea Maritime Police Agency, later said the ship apparently deviated from its planned route but did not appear to have hit a rock.
The Ministry of Ocean and Fisheries released a transcript of the conversation between the ferry and center that monitors vessel traffic. 
After alerting the center that the ferry was rolling, the Sewol stated that "the body of the ship is tilted to the left. Containers fell over, too."
The control center then asked if people were hurt. Impossible to confirm because it was impossible to move, the ferry responded. 
The center told the ferry crew to get people ready for evacuation, and the ferry once again described how hard it was for people to move. 
Adding to the pain for families, police said texts and social media messages claiming to be from missing passengers turned out to be fake. 
"We will investigate people sending out these messages," said Lee Sung Yoon, head of the combined police and prosecution team.
The actions of the captain and crew of the sunken ferry Sewol "are akin to murder," South Korean President Park Geun-hye said Monday.
Her comments come after a radio transcript released a day earlier suggested that passengers aboard the doomed South Korean ferry couldn't reach lifeboats to escape because the ship tilted so quickly that it left many of them unable to move.
"Please notify the coast guard. Our ship is in danger. The ship is rolling right now," a crew member on the ship first tells authorities in a dramatic conversation that took place while the Sewol ferry was sinking last week. 
An unidentified crew member on the Sewol talked to two different Vessel Traffic Service centers as the ship sank Wednesday morning, the transcript revealed. Someone on the ship contacted the traffic service in Jeju -- the ferry's destination -- at 8:55 a.m. and communicated with it before the conversation switched to Jindo VTS, which was closer, about 11 minutes later.
"The ship rolled over a lot right now. Cannot move. Please come quickly," the crew member says a minute after initial contact.
After the conversation switches to the traffic service in Jindo,  the Sewol crew member says several times that the ship is leaning too much for passengers to move.
The transcript may help answer one of the major questions about the capsizing: Why didn't more passengers escape on lifeboats?
At least 64 people have died in the sinking, and 238 are missing, the South Korean coast guard said Monday. 
Search crews brought more than a dozen bodies to shore Sunday morning, a solemn process pierced by screams and cries from the passengers' families.
The wrenching scene came after four police boats arrived in rapid succession. The first carried four bodies. The second boat had three more. The third and fourth also carried three bodies each.
Each body was taken onto a stretcher on the dock in Jindo, draped in cloth. After an inspection, they were carried along a path guarded by police -- who were also shedding tears -- and past grieving family members. 
With hundreds of people still missing, the heartbreaking scene will likely play out over and over again. 
Although 174 people were rescued shortly after the vessel sank Wednesday, no survivors have been found since. 
Nonetheless, more than 100 divers continued plunging into the frigid Yellow Sea Sunday. And 35 aircraft and 214 ships aided in the search, Joint Task Force spokesman Park Seung-gi told reporters.
At around noon on Monday (11 p.m. ET Sunday), divers will try to enter the ship's cafeteria, where authorities believe most students were when the ship started to sink, he said.
One diver described his experience to CNN affiliate JTBC. Teams have been focusing on the third and fourth floors of the ship, where investigators believe many of the missing might be.
"It's hard to say exactly where you are once you enter the ferry, since it is completely dark and you basically have to feel your way around based only on the blueprint of the ferry," diving team leader Hwang Dae Sik said. "So it is hard to say definitively in what compartment you are searching and what your are discovering."
Park on Sunday declared the cities of Ansan and Jindo as special disaster zones eligible for national disaster assistance programs, in order to facilitate central government help, a spokesman for the Joint Task Force Headquarters said in a news release.
Jindo VTS: "The captain should make (the) decision to make people escape. We do not know the situation so captain make final decision on passengers' escape."
"It is a fairly fast current area, and the water temperature was cold," Capt. Lee Joon Seok said, according to CNN affiliate YTN. 
"I thought that abandoning the ship without discretion would make you drift off a fairly far distance and cause a lot of trouble. At the same time, the rescue ship did not come, and there were no fishing boats or supporting ships around to help at that time." 
The captain has been charged with abandoning his boat, negligence, causing bodily injury, not seeking rescue from other ships and violating "seamen's law," state media reported.
"Mr. Lee is charged with causing the Sewol ship to sink by failing to slow down while sailing the narrow route and making (a) turn excessively," the prosecutor told the semiofficial Yonhap news agency. 
"Lee is also charged with failing to do the right thing to guide the passengers to escape and thereby leading to their death or injury."
The captain wasn't at the helm of the Sewol when it started to sink, the prosecutor said. A third mate was at the helm.  
The captain was not in the steering room when the accident took place, according to police and his own account.
He said he plotted the ship's course, and then went to his cabin briefly "to tend to something." It was then, the captain said, that the accident happened. 
A crew member, described as the third mate and identified only as Park, appeared in handcuffs with Lee.  
Park is facing charges including negligence and causing injuries leading to deaths, said Yang Joong-jin, a maritime police spokesman. 
The captain was one those rescued soon after the Sewol began to sink, violating an "internationally recognized rule that a captain must stay on the vessel," maritime law attorney Jack Hickey said. 
"Pretty much every law, rule, regulation and standard throughout the world says that yes, the captain must stay with the ship until all personnel are safely off of the ship, certainly passengers."
The following is a partial transcript of communication between an unidentified crew member aboard the sinking South Korean ferry Sewol and local maritime traffic control centers on Wednesday. 
The discussion lasts more than 30 minutes. For the first 11 minutes the Sewol communicates with the Jeju Vessel Traffic Services Center.  After that, the ship communicates with the Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center. There are references to other nearby ships, which are redacted.
The transcript, translated by CNN, was provided by the South Korean government.  Due to static, CNN could not hear parts of the audio recording to corroborate the transcript.
Sewol: The ship rolled over a lot right now. Cannot move. Please come quickly. We're next to Byeongpung Island.
Jeju Vessel Traffic Services Center: Sewol, this is Harbor Affairs Jeju. Do you have reception? Sewol, this is Harbor Affairs Jeju.
Sewol: Currently, it's impossible to confirm. It is impossible to move as the body of the ship is tilted.
Jeju Vessel Traffic Services Center: Yes, OK. Please put on the life vests and get ready as people may have to abandon ship.  
Jeju Vessel Traffic Services Center:  Yes, we just notified the coast guard. We are in the middle of conversation with Jindo VTS and Wando VTS. So please hold for a moment.
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center: Sewol do you copy?  Sewol do you copy? ...Sewol, Sewol, this is Jindo VTS.
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center: Sewol, this is Jindo VTS. Did the passengers board life raft or rescue boats?
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center:  We are reaching out to nearby fishing boats. ...Please approach as quick as possible. Please actively cooperate in rescue operation.  ...Are the passengers able to escape?
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center:  Sewol, this is Jindo VTS, do you copy? How is the flooded condition?
Sewol: It is listed more than 50 degrees to the port side and people are not able to move from left to right. We've alerted the crew members to wear life jacket and wait. It is impossible to confirm whether or not they wore (life jackets). Crew members are at the bridge and are unable to move. Please hurry.
Sewol: It cannot be confirmed either. We confirmed that several containers on the deck fell, but because we cannot move, we cannot move even by one step from the bridge, we are able to stand by holding onto the wall.
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center:  Patrol boat ETA is 15 minutes. Please broadcast and tell the passengers to wear life jackets. 
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center:  Even if you can't broadcast, please send someone to inform the passengers to wear life jacket or thick clothes.
Jindo Vessel Traffic Services Center: The captain should make decision to make people escape. We do not know the situation so captain make final decision on passengers' escape. 
Sewol: It is not possible to confirm the flood situation. Coast guards and fishing ships approached by 50 meters and those who are on the port side escaped. We sent out broadcast and it is not easy to move toward the port side. 
'Teacher, please rest in peace': Students remember vice principal who took own life after ferry sinking
Kang, who was vice principal at Ansan's Danwon High School, was rescued from the sinking Sewol ferry. 
Just two days after the accident, he was found dead after apparently hanging himself using a belt from a tree in the city of Jindo. In a note, he expressed regret he had survived while so many others had died. 
On a chilly Monday, around 4:30 a.m., Kang's coffin was led out of a funeral hall in a long, black hearse. It was too early for any sunlight. 
There were no pallbearers carrying the coffin -- only a quick walking procession of his family members and what appeared to be about a hundred others dressed in black following the car through the parking lot. 
His family members -- one son, two daughters and his wife dressed in all-black traditional Korean wear followed the hearse. When they reached the end of the parking lot of the funeral home, they got into the car. The whole walk took less than five minutes before the mourners got in and drove in a line of cars headed to the crematorium. 
Kang's body had been found Friday in one of the small mountains near the Jindo Gymnasium where bereaved families are taking shelter, according to local police. He had gone to Jindo with the school in an effort to support families, said one fellow educator.  
"As the one in charge of the safety of the students, he was suffering from guilty feelings," another teacher had told Korean media. When some familes directed their anger at him, he became "brokenhearted." 
Over 300 students from the school and their teachers were aboard the ferry. Some are confirmed dead and and hope is dwindling that any more survivors will be found. 174 were rescued. Hundreds remain missing.
He wrote that it was his idea for the field trip and that the deaths of the students were his fault. He said he could not live not knowing where his students are. 
People who wish to say farewell visit a funeral room and pay their respects to the deceased one's family. The family members receive guests for about three days.
During this period, several students from the high school came to the funeral home to pay their respects to Kang's family. Dressed in their school uniforms, they bowed to the family.
"He was an ethics teacher," said freshman Choi Yoo Jung. "I wonder if that's why it was hard for him. He was such a good person. He really liked students a lot." 
Another student, Kim Hyun Soo, also a freshman, said she felt it was too harsh for Kang to be blamed for what happened on the ferry. 
"The vice principal really liked students," she said. "It seems like he was really hard on himself. I don't think anyone should be blaming him."
His death elicited sorry and sympathy across South Korea. Messages of sympathy and grief have been outpouring on social media.
"Teacher Kang Min Kyu, please rest in peace. Praying for the soul of the departed," tweeted @minifi_0309.
"We are so sorry..." tweeted Kim Min Hyuk, a senior at the high school, who tweeted the name of the vice principal along with the names of other dead teachers from the ferry tragedy. 
Judging from the volume of flowers sent to his funeral room -- from ROTC, his high school classmates, his previous schools where he taught -- it appeared the educator for over 20 years was a well-respected one. 
The hearse carrying his coffin traveled a few miles east and pulled into Danwon High School, circling the campus for one last time -- signifying Kang's last visit to his school. 
At least 108 people have died and 194 others remain missing. Many of them are students and teachers on a field trip from a high school near Seoul, the South Korean coast guard said Tuesday.
Although 174 people were rescued soon after the vessel sank Wednesday, no survivors have been found since.  
"The conditions are so bad, my heart aches. We're going in thinking there may be survivors. When we have to come back with nothing, we can't even face the families," said Bard Yoon, a rescue diver.
Speaking for the families and much of her country, South Korean President Park Geun-hye likened the actions of the captain and some crew members of the Sewol to murder, as police made more four arrests.
The captain of the South Korean ship, Lee Joon-seok, is already facing a series of criminal charges for his role in the sinking.
"The actions of the captain and some of the crew are absolutely unacceptable, unforgivable actions that are akin to murder," Park said Monday in comments released by her office. She said she and other South Koreans were filled with "rage and horror."
The latest arrests of crew members bring the total number detained to seven as authorities investigate what went wrong on the ship as it sailed toward a popular holiday island.
"We pray for the Sewol victims who lost their precious lives due to the accident.  We prostrate ourselves before the victims' families and beg for forgiveness.
"We apologize to all the people who are grieving for the loss of their loved ones. Also, we apologize to the people who had injuries, major or minor, due to this accident. We wish them a speedy recovery," read the statement. It was unclear when exactly it was posted.
"We will try our best to rescue the missing people quickly and we pray with all our hearts that there will be survivors.
President Park's strong words came after more details emerged over the weekend about the chaos and confusion aboard the doomed ferry as the disaster unfolded in the cold waters of the Yellow Sea off South Korea's southwest coast.
A radio transcript released by authorities suggested that passengers on the ship couldn't reach lifeboats to escape because the ship tilted so quickly that it left many of them unable to move.
"Please notify the coast guard. Our ship is in danger. The ship is rolling right now," a crew member on the ship first tells authorities in a fraught conversation that took place as the Sewol ferry was foundering. 
An unidentified crew member on the Sewol talked to two different Vessel Traffic Service centers as the ship sank Wednesday morning, the transcript revealed.
When one of the centers advises getting people into life vests, the crew member replies that it's "hard for people to move."
After the conversation switches to the other center, the crew member says the ship has leaned so far that passengers are unable to move.
"The captain should make (the) decision to make people escape," it told the ferry, noting that he had a better understanding of the situation.
"It is a fairly fast current area, and the water temperature was cold," he said over the weekend, according to CNN affiliate YTN. 
"I thought that abandoning the ship without discretion would make you drift off a fairly far distance and cause a lot of trouble. At the same time, the rescue ship did not come, and there were no fishing boats or supporting ships around to help at that time."
 "If the passengers had jumped into the water sooner, more people could have been rescued," Eun Dae-young told CNN affiliate YTN in a phone interview Monday. 
The ferry captain has been charged with abandoning his boat, negligence, causing bodily injury, not seeking rescue from other ships and violating "seamen's law," South Korean media reported.
"Mr. Lee is charged with causing the Sewol ship to sink by failing to slow down while sailing the narrow route and making (a) turn excessively," the prosecutor told the semiofficial Yonhap news agency. 
"Lee is also charged with failing to do the right thing to guide the passengers to escape and thereby leading to their death or injury."
The captain wasn't at the helm of the Sewol when it started to sink, the prosecutor said. A third mate was at the helm.
Authorities said Monday that four more crew members of the ferry have been detained, bringing the total number arrested to seven.
Two first helmsmen, one second helmsman and the chief engineer are now under arrest, said Yang Joong-jin, the chief prosecutor of the investigation. He said the four crew members could face indictment on several charges.
Dozens of divers have continued to plunge into the frigid, murky waters, still holding out hope that they might find somebody alive inside the sunken ship.
"There must be survivors, no matter what we must find the air pocket. That's why I have hope," Choung Dong-nam, the head of volunteer divers involved in the search, said Sunday. 
But each hour reduces the chances of finding anyone alive, and the human cost of the disaster weighs on the divers.
"We cry everyday and search for the missing people," Choung said. "I cry whenever I think about it."
One meter down, they can see about 50 centimeters (about 1.6 feet) in front of them, Choung said. Below 10 meters, they can see only 20 centimeters (less than 8 inches) ahead.
The captain was not in the steering room when the accident took place, according to police and his own account.
He said he plotted the ship's course, and then went to his cabin briefly "to tend to something." It was then, the captain said, that the accident happened. 
A crew member, described as the third mate and identified only as Park, appeared in handcuffs with Capt. Lee at the weekend. 
Park is facing charges including negligence and causing injuries leading to deaths, authorities said. A technician with the surname Cho is also facing the same charges, they said.
The captain was one those rescued soon after the Sewol began to sink, violating an "internationally recognized rule that a captain must stay on the vessel," maritime law attorney Jack Hickey said. 
"Pretty much every law, rule, regulation and standard throughout the world says that yes, the captain must stay with the ship until all personnel are safely off of the ship, certainly passengers."
The first distress call from the ferry Sewol came not from the crew, but from a boy who used a cell phone to contact emergency services from aboard the sinking ship, the South Korean coast guard confirmed to CNN Tuesday.
CNN affiliate JTBC reported that the boy dialed South Korea's emergency number, telling dispatchers for a local fire service, "Help us. The boat is sinking." The boy's fate was not clear.
It was not until three minutes later, the coast guard told CNN, that the ship's crew made a distress call to maritime officials.
The revelation is likely to add to questions about the conduct of the crew, nine of whom are facing charges in last week's sinking.
Among other things, authorities have questioned why an inexperienced third mate was guiding the ship at the time of the accident, why so few of the ferry's life rafts were deployed and why crew members ordered passengers to don life vests and stay put.
At least 146 people are confirmed dead, according to the joint task force leading the search. Earlier, when the death toll was reported to be 128, authorities had said that 174 people were still missing. 
The death toll had been expected to climb as divers were able to reach the ship's cafeteria, where many passengers were thought to be when the ship began to have troubles last week. But early Wednesday, the coast guard said no bodies had been found in the cafeteria.
Rescuers will continue to focus on the third and fourth decks of the five-level ship, said Koh Myung-seok, a spokesman for the joint task force.
Above the ship, two buoys marked its location in the water, surrounded by dozens of vessels, ranging from dinghies to warships. Inflatable powerboats zipped across the sea, ferrying divers to the area.
"We're going in thinking there may be survivors," he said. "When we have to come back with nothing, we can't even face the families."
On shore, relatives of missing passengers waited anxiously, many of them parents of high school students who were on a field trip. As bodies come in, they are called into white domed tents to identify the remains of their loved ones.
Authorities said the efforts are still a search and rescue operation, but no survivors have been found since 174 people were rescued soon after the ferry went down.
As the search continues, investigators are trying to figure out what happened to make the ship list before finally capsizing and sinking into the ocean.
Initial criticism has focused on the captain and some crew members. South Korean President Park Geun-hye said Monday that their actions were "akin to murder."
The captain, Lee Joon-seok, has defended his decision to tell passengers to stay put as the ferry began sinking, saying he was concerned about the sea's strong currents and cold water as well as the lack of rescue ships.
Questions have been raised about why the third mate was steering the ship when it ran into trouble on its way to a popular vacation island. The captain was in his cabin at the time.
"We pray for the Sewol victims who lost their precious lives due to the accident," it said. "We prostrate ourselves before the victims' families and beg for forgiveness."
When the HMS Birkenhead, a British ship carrying troops, began to sink off the coast of South Africa in 1852, the captain and military officers on board famously allowed women and children to board the lifeboats first.
The captain and many of the troops stayed on the ship until the last, perishing in the ocean as the women and children made their way to safety.  Their chivalrous act of self-sacrifice is considered to have helped set the standard for noble conduct at sea.
Other displays of courage by captains and crew members who put their passengers first have punctuated the decades since, like Capt. Edward J. Smith who went down with the Titanic.
Capt. Lee Joon-seok of the Sewol, the South Korean ferry that sunk last week, has come under heavy criticism for abandoning the ship while hundreds of passengers remained on board. Dozens of them died and more than 200 were still missing Monday. 
Lee's actions have prompted comparisons to those of Capt. Francesco Schettino who was in command of the cruise ship Costa Concordia, which crashed into a reef off the Italian coast in 2012, killing 32 people.
Witnesses said Schettino jumped into a lifeboat to flee the ship, even though hundreds of passengers were still on board. In his trial, the captain said he fell into a lifeboat when the ship listed sharply.
Schettino is now on trial on charges of manslaughter, causing a maritime disaster and abandoning ship with passengers still on board. He denies wrongdoing.
The cases of the Sewol and the Costa Concordia have raised questions about a captain's obligations to passengers when a vessel runs into trouble.
By leaving the Sewol soon after it began sinking, Lee reneged on some of his key duties, experts say.
"The captain's first obligation is for the safety of his crew and passengers," Capt. James Staples, a maritime consultant, told CNN. "He should stay on board that vessel until he knows everybody is safely evacuated.
"And then the other reason he stays on board the vessel is for salvage rights. For the captain to leave the vessel in an early situation, it's not the way it should be done."
An international maritime convention on the safety of life at sea makes a captain responsible for the vessel and all the people on board, but it doesn't stipulate that the captain stay on the ship throughout the crisis.
"You don't necessarily want a captain dying with a ship. But he has a responsibility for the safety of everybody on board that ship," said Cade Courtley, former Navy SEAL and president and founder of SEAL Survival.
"He's got to be there and take care of that," Courtley told CNN. "And this guy didn't do that. He was one of the first off. I mean, that's kind of unforgivable, basically."
And similarly to Schettino in Italy, Lee is facing criminal charges over his role in the disaster, including abandoning his ship, negligence, causing bodily injury and not seeking rescue from other ships.
South Korean President Park Geun-hye has likened the actions of Lee and some of the ferry's crew members to murder. 
As well as the role of honor for captains who went down with their vessels, there is hall of shame for those who jumped ship.
In one example, the Italian steamer Sirio was wrecked off the Spanish coast in 1906, killing more than 150 people. 
Its captain was reported to have abandoned the ship at the first opportunity, but he died the following year of "a broken heart" according to a report in The New York Times.
Lee has drawn particular criticism for apparently ordering passengers to delay the evacuation of the Sewol as it foundered.
"The captain should have been passing honest and clear information on to everyone as to the situation, not telling them to just sit," said William Doherty, a retired captain with the U.S. Merchant Marines.
"It is a fairly fast current area, and the water temperature was cold," he said, according to local media. 
"I thought that abandoning the ship without discretion would make you drift off a fairly far distance and cause a lot of trouble. At the same time, the rescue ship did not come, and there were no fishing boats or supporting ships around to help at that time."
Lee's early departure may have exacerbated the crisis on board the ship, said Doherty, who teaches safety management at the Massachusetts Maritime Academy.
"When the leadership cuts and runs, it leaves a vacuum that is almost impossible to fill," he told CNN.
"There should have been crewmembers going to the life raft stations. There should have been crew members mustering the passengers. So you know your head count. If there are missing people, there should have been other crew members searching the vessel to find those people."
Although U.S. law doesn't specify abandoning ship as a crime, it's a long-standing tradition that the captain be the last one off a sinking ship, according to legal experts.
He cautioned, though, that not all the details have emerged of Lee's actions during the crucial moments on the Sewol.
"We don't know if the coast guard demanded him to get off at that time," he said. "They may have been alongside and told the captain he had to get off at that time. We're not sure what happened there."
In a promotional video from 2010, he is pictured in the wheelhouse of a ship, looking out to sea through binoculars.
"I believe it is safer than any other vehicle," he says, "as long as they follow the instructions of our crew members."
But there's one crew member they are leaving out: Park Jee Young, 22, who by witness accounts helped passengers escape and distributed life jackets -- one after the other to students --  as the stricken ferry began to sink. 
When she was asked why she wasn't wearing a life jacket, Park said that crew members would be last and that she had to help others first, according to witness accounts to South Korean media.
The other day, a man with injuries to his head showed up to the funeral room where Park's memorial stands. 
When asked by Park's family who he was, the man said that he had been injured in the ferry and that he was "indebted" to the young woman who placed a towel on his bloody head and helped him as the water rose.
"She was so responsible and so kind," said her grandmother, Choi Sun Dok, 75, who sat on the floor, slumped against a wall, no longer able to stand. Her family members kneeled with her, holding her hand and weeping together on the floor. 
White mums and lilies, which signify death, poured in from strangers, covering the hallway leading to her memorial room. The flowers contain messages like "We will not forget your noble spirit." "We will always remember your sacrifice." "Hero." An online petition has gone up urging the government to award her a Good Samaritan award. 
Her relatives say Park wanted to stay in college, but she felt responsible for supporting her family after her father passed away two years ago. So she dropped out and joined the ferry company in 2012. She was transferred to a bigger ship, the Sewol, about six months ago, because she had proved her capabilities, her relatives said.
The Sewol's sinking has left many appalled by the alleged actions of several members of the crew -- including the captain, who now faces a series of criminal charges for his role in last week's sinking. 
"This is so unfair that our Jee Young had to die while the captain ran away," said her aunt, who declined to give her name. "Jee Young was so responsible, and the captain just ran away."
Over two-thirds of those on board were students on a high school field trip, many of whom remain missing. 
Those who are not students, teachers or parents were not allowed on school grounds to allow those to grieve privately. Well-wishers milled outside the school gate, writing Post-it notes and signs with messages of hope and encouragement. "Brothers and sisters, please come back," one read.
Judith Ambe, a local college student who knew about 10 of the missing students through her church, stood outside, silently praying. 
"I just hope, maybe, they could be found alive," Ambe said, wiping her tears. "I'm hoping God will intervene." 
"It feels so empty now," said student Kim Song Kyum, 17. "It's not an environment where you can study now." 
"I want everything to be a lie," high school student Oh Hae Youn said. "When I wake up in the morning, I feel like everything feels right. Then, I realize it's not. I just wish everything was a lie."
The bright yellow ribbons are tied tightly to the metal bars of the main gate at Danwon High School.
More than 300 students from the school were on a field trip on the Sewol, the ferry that sank last week off the coast of South Korea. Most of them are dead or missing.
The ribbons symbolize solidarity with the missing teenagers' families and hopes that some of the students -- who went to school in Ansan, a city near Seoul -- might still be found alive. 
The approach borrows from a practice that became popular in the United States during the Iranian hostage crisis that began in 1979. The tradition was used again in the United States during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
In South Korea, the ribbons have also spread into the realm of social media. Many people have posted an image evoking them as their profile photos on services like Facebook and Naver. 
The image is a bold yellow square with a black border. In the center sits a simple design of a bow in black with a line of Korean written underneath.
The online movement was started Saturday by a local student club, according to The Korea Herald, an English-language newspaper in South Korea. 
The group wanted "to support the families of the missing and offer a hopeful message to the Korean public that the missing passengers could still be found alive," the newspaper reported. 
Other variations of the yellow ribbon image have also begun to circulate on popular social media sites. And Korean celebrities have helped spread the word.
The K-pop star G-Dragon posted an image of a yellow ribbon on his Twitter feed, and the actress Park Shin-hye changed her profile picture to a ribbon picture with the popular hashtag #prayforsouthkorea written underneath.
Clusters of real ribbons have also reportedly sprung up in other cities, such as Seoul and Chuncheon. Some of the ribbons have messages and tributes written on them.
FC Seoul, a top local soccer team, will don the ribbons for a Saturday game against the Jeonnam Dragons, according to local media.
The hopes the ribbons symbolize are fading fast. Rescuers saved 174 people on April 16, the day the ship sank, but no other survivors have been found since. Divers say they have found no air pockets that could have kept people alive inside the submerged vessel.
The ribbons are also being used as a rallying point to raise money for the families who are grieving or still anxiously waiting for news of their loved ones.
National soccer player Park Chu-young, Olympic figure skater Yuna Kim and LA Dodgers pitcher Hyun-jin Ryu each donated 100 million won (roughly $100,000), according to Wow TV, a local broadcaster.
Naver, a popular Web search portal, has a yellow ribbon page allowing users to leave messages and make donations to a fund organized by the National Disaster Relief Association.
The ribbon campaign "evolved organically in the social media sphere and is the term people seem to be using in reference to all different kinds of efforts being made on behalf of the victims and families of the disaster," said Chung Seo-yoon, a representative from the association, which was founded in 1961 by media groups.
The organization is aiming to raise 500 million won. So far, tens of thousands of people have donated, raising nearly 350 million won.
In the United States, yellow ribbons were widely used to demonstrate a desire for the return of American hostages held in Tehran between 1979 and 1981. 
According to the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress, the yellow ribbon practice originated in a modern folk legend, which was turned into a popular song, "Tie a Yellow Ribbon Round the Ole Oak Tree," which was in turn transformed "into a ritual enactment."
Since the Iranian hostage crisis, it has reportedly been picked up in other countries, for a variety of movements and causes.
In its 1991 article, the American Folklife Center noted the ribbon's ability to take on new meanings:
"Ultimately, the thing that makes the yellow ribbon a genuinely traditional symbol is ... its capacity to take on new meanings, to fit new needs and, in a word, to evolve."
First days back at school are usually filled with optimism about what's ahead, but many students at Danwon High School near Seoul, South Korea, are looking back in mourning.
On Thursday, a series of hearses made a slow crawl toward the school in the city of Ansan. Inside each, a person in the passenger seat held a portrait of the teenager they lost when a ferry capsized April 16. 
The school was not the vehicles' final stop. They continued on to funerals. Danwon lost a large part of a grade. Several teachers also died in the disaster.
The only students at school Thursday were those in their final year. About 100 psychiatrists and support staff from across South Korea were on hand to counsel them. Some teens arrived in hoods or wore caps to cover their faces as they made their way past journalists.
Many of the messages from other students expressed regret at not being able to help their classmates on the ferry traveling from the port city of Incheon to Jeju, a southern resort island.
Thousands of yellow ribbons were tied to the school gates, trees and posts. The ribbons have become a symbol of hope that survivors might still be found in the submerged ferry vessel, picking up a practice used in the United States for soldiers and hostages overseas.
Mental health care professionals will be available to the students for at least two months, said Dr. Kim Hyun-sook, head of the community mental health program in the region. 
"Koreans, when they experience trauma, they feel anger and sadness but they tend to bottle it up," he said. "We're trying to encourage emotional communication to let those feelings out."
"I feel my heart is being ripped up," said Ryu Chang-ryul, who has lived near the school for nine years. "For three days I haven't eaten. It all hurts too much."
Kim Young-sook runs a small restaurant near the school. She dressed in black and wept as she spoke with CNN, explaining that students are regular customers. 
"He used to call me auntie," she said. "He was sitting here playing guitar talking about just how important this trip was to him. I feel so bad that I could not be there. All of us, we could have done something."
Authorities have arrested the captain and other crew members. The number of crew members charged in connection to the ferry sinking has risen to 14, said Yang Joong-jin, the chief prosecutor in the city of Mokpo. Of the 29 crew members on the ship, 20 survived. The nine others are dead or missing.
A South Korean lawmaker said Thursday that renovations last year expanded the top floor of the Sewol to make room for 117 more passengers.
Kim Yong-rok, an opposition lawmaker who represents Jindo, an island near where the ship sank, told CNN that the modifications raised the ferry's center of gravity. CNN asked South Korean prosecutors about that but they were unable to confirm it.
For friends gripped by intense sadness, all they can do is write messages to the dead. Many have expressed regret that they were unable to save their classmates.
President Obama arrived in Seoul on Friday to news that North Korea may be counting down to a nuclear weapons test.
Such moves out of Pyongyang are no surprise and are typical behavior for the North, Obama told reporters while in Tokyo, his previous stop on his Asia trip.
The President said he was prepared to deliver a firm response if a test is conducted during his visit.
North Korea's heightened activity at its nuclear test site was already known. But now, the final step needed for an underground detonation has been taken, a South Korean government official said Thursday.
The North has closed off the entrance to the tunnel at the Punggye-ri nuclear test site, the official said.
That gives Pyongyang 11 days to either detonate a nuclear device or cancel the test. It would be the North's fourth test of a nuclear weapon.
Obama and South Korean President Park Geun-hye want to display a united front against North Korea, and the communist dictatorship reacted earlier in the week to the American President's visit with condemnation.
Its Foreign Ministry has called the trip "a reactionary and dangerous one, as it is aimed to escalate confrontation and bring dark clouds of a nuclear arms race to hang over this unstable region."
At a joint news conference Friday, Park praised Obama for his presence during renewed tensions on the peninsula.
"President Obama's visit to Korea sends a strong message to North Korea that its provocative acts cannot be tolerated," she said.
Obama called North Korea "the most isolated country in the world." International sanctions and condemnation have led to extreme suffering for its people, he said.
In light of possible new provocations, he said the United States and South Korea have agreed that they need to find new ways to pressure Pyongyang, such as "further sanctions that have even more bite."
Park said that the two countries would "spare no efforts" to deter North Korea. But she also underlined the South's desire to tend to the dire needs of the North Korean people and to work toward Korean reunification.
The possibility of a nuclear test adds a dark cloud to the grim mood overshadowing Obama's visit -- the sorrow over the capsizing of the ferry Sewol. 
As he often does at home, he is acting as "consoler-in-chief," offering support to survivors and victims' families as he pauses from policy and diplomatic demands.
More than 180 people have been confirmed dead, many of them high school students, and the nation has been consumed with grief. Many of the nearly 500 on board are still missing.
Obama presented her with a framed American flag that was flown over the White House the same day the ferry sank as a symbol of condolence. 
"Michelle and I sent our deepest condolences to the South Korean people, and as parents we cannot begin to imagine what all those grieving parents are going through, having lost their sons and daughters." 
He laid a wreath at the National War Memorial to commemorate those who died in the war between the Koreas from 1950 to 1953.
Nearly 3 million people died on all sides, including more than 36,000 American servicemen. The conflict ended in an armistice that stopped the fighting, but a peace treaty was never signed.
The President also congratulated U.S. military personnel and spouses of soldiers who were being naturalized as U.S. citizens Friday.
"Thirteen of you made the profound decision to put on the uniform of a country that was not yet fully your own," he said from a stage. "Seven of you married a military soldier."
He praised the new citizens, who had immigrated from 14 countries, as an asset to the United States. He said Americans must "keep in mind the value of our immigrants to our way of life. It is central to who we are."
Obama headed to Seoul from Tokyo, where a formal state visit --- complete with a royal audience and a black-tie dinner --- was meant to exhibit strong ties between Japan and the United States. 
At a news conference with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Obama was pressed on whether he would use military force to defend an obscure set of islands controlled by Japan that are at the heart of a heated regional dispute with China.
He said the U.S. security pact with Japan does extend to the islands -- known as Diaoyu to the Chinese -- and insisted his implicit offer to defend them against any Chinese incursion did not amount to drawing a red line around the contested land.
"The treaty between the U.S. and Japan preceded my birth, so this isn't a red line that I'm drawing," Obama said. "There's no shift in position, no red line. Were simply applying the treaty."
The group of islands and rocks jutting out of the ocean is tiny and uninhabited. But the longstanding dispute over them has sent tempers flaring in Beijing and Tokyo, especially in recent years.
The area around them in the South China Sea between Taiwan and Okinawa is believed to be rich in oil resources.
Seoul is the first of two stops on Obama's tour where citizens are coming to grips with major transportation disasters --- on Saturday, Obama flies to Malaysia, where government officials continue to search in vain for the Malaysian Airlines jetliner that disappeared more than a month ago.
Those officials have come under withering criticism, accused of botching the search and keeping family members of those on board in the dark. 
So far, the White House has avoided faulting Malaysian leaders for the efforts, instead highlighting the U.S. efforts to help find the plane.
Reporters questioned the U.S. President on the situation in Ukraine and his relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Obama praised the unity of other countries, particularly in Europe, in condemning Moscow's "meddling" in Ukraine.
He placed much of the blame on Russia for the breakdown of a peace agreement made last week in Geneva, Switzerland.
The Ukrainian government has been carrying out its side of that agreement, he said. It has, for example, offered amnesty to those who will lay down their arms.
The agreement also calls for both sides to refrain from violence. On Thursday, the Ukrainian government said its forces killed five pro-Russian activists while destroying opposition roadblocks. 
"What we have not seen is Russia speaking out clearly, condemning the pro-Russian militias that have taken over these buildings," the President said.
He also said that Russia's economy, which was already weakening, would suffer as investors bailed out of the country over the Ukraine crisis.
"Mr. Putin, in my second term, has had an increasing tendency to view the world through a Cold War prism and to see Russia's interests as invariably in conflict with the West's," he said. 
When divers found the teenager's body in the submerged ship, he was wearing a pair of jeans and a light green hoodie.
The simple, human details about Woo-hyuk are noted on a whiteboard, which catalogues descriptions of the bodies recovered from the sunken ferry Sewol. 
They were among the 325 students from a South Korean high school on board the ferry that sank April 16, making up two thirds of the passengers of the ship.
The students attended Danwon High School in Ansan, a city about an hour's drive south from the capital, Seoul. 
The school has lost the majority of its junior year, as well as a dozen teachers. Signs of mourning are everywhere in the surrounding neighborhood.
Yellow ribbons are tied to the school gate, symbolizing hope and solidarity with the dead and missing students' families. 
Many of the messages from other students expressed regret at not being able to help their classmates on the ferry that was traveling from the port city of Incheon to Jeju, a southern resort island, when it began to list and then capsized.
Funerals of students have been taking place in recent days. Before the ceremonies, the hearses have driven into the school grounds for one last visit, a portrait of the dead teenager carried by a person in the passenger seat.
"I feel my heart is being ripped up," said Ryu Chang-ryul, who has lived near the school for nine years. "For three days I haven't eaten. It all hurts too much."
      Kim Young-sook runs a small restaurant near the school. She dressed in black and wept as she spoke with CNN, explaining that students are regular customers. 
      "He used to call me auntie," she said. "He was sitting here playing guitar talking about just how important this trip was to him. I feel so bad that I could not be there. All of us, we could have done something."
A makeshift memorial has been set up in a nearby basketball gymnasium, where hundreds of people file past a wall of flowers in which dozens of photos of dead and missing students are mounted. As well as local visitors, people have driven down from other cities like Seoul to pay their respects.
The school reopened Thursday, but only for students in the final year. About 100 psychiatrists and support staff from across South Korea were on hand to counsel them. Some of the teenagers arrived in hoods or wore caps to cover their faces as they made their way past journalists.
Mental health care professionals will be available to the students for at least two months, said Dr. Kim Hyun-sook, head of the community mental health program in the region. 
      "Koreans, when they experience trauma, they feel anger and sadness but they tend to bottle it up," he said. "We're trying to encourage emotional communication to let those feelings out."
The parents of the dead and missing, meanwhile, cling to photos and videos of their lost loved ones.
Christine Kim taught English to some of the students. Her youngest daughter, Billy, was on board the ferry.
A video on Kim's cell phone shows Billy hula-hooping while wearing a dalmation costume -- a fun-loving teenager.
In the final, chaotic moments before the South Korean ferry Sewol rolled over and sank into the chilly waters of the Yellow Sea, 48 girls obeyed the orders of crew members and put on their life vests.
The account of the recovery of the girls' bodies, offered Friday by rescue officials, offers a glimpse of the final moments aboard the sinking ferry, which went down on April 16 with 476 people aboard.
It also illuminates the daunting task facing divers trying to retrieve bodies while maintaining a fading glimmer of hope that perhaps, somewhere aboard the ferry, someone remains alive.
Rescue officials spoke of a forest of floating objects, doors forced shut by enormous water pressure, and of currents that tug at the breathing tubes that keep them alive as they look for the dead.
Civilian diver Chun Kwan-geung, one of the many rescuers working in the murky waters, spoke of having to break out windows to get to the lower decks of the ship, which now lies on its right side on the seafloor some 73 meters (240 feet) below the surface.
"The rescue effort is getting slower," said South Korean navy Capt. Kim Jin-hwang, commander of the rescue operation. "The divers already searched all the places easily accessible. They are expecting the search to become harder because of increasing currents and harsher weather. But the navy will not stop until the last body is found."
As if highlighting the point, Kim's divers are trying to find their way into another dormitory-style room where 50 girls were believed to be as the ship began to sink.
So far, rescuers have retrieved 187 bodies. Another 115 people remain missing, although no one has been rescued since 174 were plucked from ship and sea the day the ferry sank.
As the effort inside the ship continues, South Korean authorities are pressing a criminal investigation into the sinking. It's resulted in the arrests of the ship's captain and 14 other members, searches of the company that owned the ferry and the home of the man whose family controls it, and a wide-ranging probe into the country's marine industry.
Prosecutors in Mopko, South Korea, who are leading the ferry investigation told CNN's Nic Robertson on Friday that authorities have yet to determine what caused the sinking.
Leading theories include changes made to increase the ferry's passenger capacity and shifting cargo.
On Friday, investigators checked out the Sewol's sister ship, the Ohamana, and said they found 40 of its life rafts weren't working, emergency slides to help evacuate passengers were inoperable, and equipment to tie down cars and cargo either was nonexistent or didn't work very well.
The ship arrived in Incheon on April 16, the same day the Sewol sank, and has not left yet, officials said.
Investigators are looking into whether those modifications could have contributed to the Sewol's fate.
Kim Yong-rok, an opposition lawmaker who represents Jindo, an island near where the ship sank, told CNN that modifications to add 117 more passenger cabins to the ship raised the ferry's center of gravity.
On Friday, the South Korean Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries announced it would ask lawmakers to consider legislation prohibiting modifications to ships to increase passenger capacity.
Government investigators are also probing the private organization that conducts ship safety inspections on behalf of the government to determine if any wrongdoing was involved in the certification of the Sewol after its 2013 modifications.
The revelations about the sister ship came the day after angry relatives of missing ferry passengers cursed government and police officials for failing to do enough to save the lives of their loved ones as hopes of finding survivors dimmed.
The relatives berated Fisheries Minister Lee Ju-young and two coast guard officials, accusing them of misleading the public about the operation and of wasting time.
"How can you fool us into believing you were out there trying to save our children?" one mother yelled at the officials.
Also, officials at the South Korean headquarters for the task force coordinating the search told CNN that they believe the body of a boy who reportedly made the first emergency call from the ship after it began to list sharply has been recovered. DNA tests will help officially identify the remains, officials said early Friday. 
"I know a lot of people are curious as to the cause of the accident, but we don't have the information yet," said Heo Yong-beom, a maritime safety judge. "We will try our best to satisfy and answer questions."
Meanwhile, U.S. President Barack Obama, in South Korea for a previously scheduled trip, presented South Korean President Park Geun-hye with an American flag that flew over the White House the day the ferry sank.
"I'm very mindful that my visit comes at a time of mourning for the people of this nation," he told the U.S. and the South Korean delegations. "As allies but also friends, we join you in mourning the missing, and especially the young people."
After two days of official mourning, the funeral of Choi Duk-Ha, the 17-year-old student who first raised the alarm that his ferry was sinking, was held on Sunday.
His call to emergency services gave rescuers a precious few extra minutes to get to the stricken Sewol and get passengers off as it is listed dangerously before capsizing and sinking off the coast of South Korea on the morning of April 15. 
"My boy was pure in heart. He was so innocent. It was probably only nature for him to have called 119 first," his mother Kim Sang-Hee said.
Wearing a black mourning hanbok, Kim and her husband Choi Sung-Woong have led a traditional three-day funeral, which ended Sunday morning with a service at the Ansan Catholic cathedral. Hundreds of friends, community leaders and well-wishers passed through the funeral home in the city of Ansan to offer prayers and to light incense as nuns and friends sang prayers for the departed. 
Kim and Sung-Woong are still trying to come to terms with the loss of their youngest child and only son.
Duk-Ha was one of 325 students from Danwon High School who boarded the ferry bound for Jeju. Only 78 returned. 
"He was unusually excited and incredibly happy to be going. I was so happy because he was, so I bid him farewell in the morning wishing him a good trip but it ended this way. My heart is broken," Kim said.
On that fateful Wednesday morning, emergency services received a call from Duk-Ha saying that the ferry was sinking. It was a full three minutes before the vessel's crew alerted the emergency services.  He is being hailed as a hero in South Korea for saving lives with that call.
"We were wondering why he was not calling us when most of the kids were calling their mums and dads when the accident happened. It was not until later when we heard from the media what he had done. He has always had leadership qualities. Now I am very proud of him. Although he made a sacrifice he saved many lives."
"My Duk-Ha has done many good deeds. We believe God brought Duk-Ha to this life for this purpose," his father said.
As happens so often in tragedies like this, some of the ferry survivors have felt guilty to be alive when so many others are not -- but Duk-Ha's parents had a poignant message for them.
"It breaks my heart to think about the suffering that all the children went through. My child has gone to heaven but the children who survived must grow up to be adults. I want them to overcome the pain and move on and live a full life for their sake and for the sake of the children who did not make it," said Kim.
Her husband added: "I am past the point of hating or blaming anyone. I hope that we can let that go."
The local government has asked the state if Duk-Ha can be buried at the national cemetery, which honors political and military leaders and citizens who gave their lives to help others. His parents say they don't yet know where his final resting place will be.
For the next few days his cremated remains will lie at the Ansan gymnasium, a temporary memorial site, where thousands of local people continue to pay their last respects to the lost sons and daughters of Ansan.
The middle-aged man stands in line, patiently waiting. He's wearing the de facto uniform of the Seoul businessman, a fitted black suit and thin tie. He's driven an hour to be here at the memorial site at Ansan, joining the 100,000 mourners paying their respects before the school portraits of children who will never grow old. 
"I'm a father of two kids," he weeps, his hand firmly over his chest, as if to press in a breaking heart. "I just am very sorry because I can do nothing for these families. I just want to come here to say I'm very sorry to these families."
He knew no one aboard the Sewol ferry -- his life in Seoul should be blissfully separate from the unfolding disaster at sea. But he embodies the grief, guilt and anger that leaves virtually no one in South Korea untouched. 
The main road into Jindo is lined with yellow. Every 6 feet, another yellow ribbon waves in the wind of the passing cars. At Danwon High School in Ansan, where the junior class lost three quarters of its students in the ferry disaster, yellow ribbons are tied at the gates. But these ribbons didn't start at the disaster site or the school. 
In the nation that refers to itself as the most wired in the world, South Korea's ribbons began online, as a simple yellow square with the outline of a bow. University students designed the image and began to spread it on an instant messaging site in South Korea called Kakao Talk on April 19. The meaning began as a hopeful one, "one small step, big miracle." As the death toll continues to rise, it's evolved into a national sign of grief.
People are tying ribbons to their homes and schools across the country. The ribbons prominently appear on television news programs nearly every half hour, somber music sometimes playing underneath the slow-motion images of the yellow across the country. The prim presenters of South Korea's television programs, whose female anchors tend to favor hot pink and royal blue, are all wearing grey and black suits. One story dominates the news channels -- the Sewol ferry disaster, from the investigation to the national mourning. 
On Korean language Twitter and Facebook, users share their grief in short messages with a yellow ribbon. Overwhelmingly, the messages tend to focus on a sense of rage and helplessness. "I am sorry that I couldn't rescue you and help you," Twitter user @sbja22 wrote. 
The palpable desire to rescue the victims centers around who the passengers are -- students from Danwon High School. Juniors in South Korea's high schools have traditionally been granted a special outing or field trip before notoriously rigorous college entrance exams. The teenagers who boarded the Sewol ferry were experiencing a national rite of passage that turned to horror. 
Children in South Korea are considered a family's treasure, the ones who have traditionally been doted on and showered with attention. Obedience in the young is prized. Parental protection is the reward. 
The Sewol disaster tears through much of the cultural structure expected in modern Korean society of children and elders. The first emergency call from the doomed ferry came from a Danwon student, 17-year-old Choi Duk-ha. 
"Save us. We are on a ship, and I think it's sinking," he pleaded as he called emergency services. The adults on the ship failed to make the first distress call and would follow three minutes later. Choi Duk-ha would die on the Sewol ferry.
The crew, the ones trained to protect the passengers, issued a ship-wide announcement for passengers to remain in their cabins, instead of heading to the deck and the life rafts. The high school students, raised in that culture of obedience, overwhelmingly listened to that announcement. Survivors say the passengers who listened to that order were the ones who never made it off. 
The crew then abandoned ship, being some of the first rescued by the coast guard. Television news broadcast images fueling national outrage -- the captain jumping into a rescue boat as his young passengers remained trapped, wearing life vests that prevented them from swimming out of flooding rooms. 
The Sewol ferry was first known as the Ferry Naminoue, built in Japan. It operated in Japan from 1994 to 2012. The Chonghaejin Marine Co. purchased the ferry on October 2012 and refurbished it. Chonghaejin added extra passenger cabins on the third, fourth and fifth decks, raising passenger capacity and altering the weight and balance of the vessel. 
The ferry, renamed the Sewol, went through regulatory and safety checks, conducted by the Korean Register of Shipping. On its website, it lists its mission as "protecting life and property." The organization says it has the ability to inspect vessels in 65 nations, from Australia to Spain.
The organization is private but works on behalf of the government. In the case of the Sewol, the Korean Register of Shipping conducted safety inspections, investigating its design and technology. The Sewol's modifications passed inspection and began sailing with passengers last year, operating between Incheon and the resort island of Jeju. 
"The modification was part of the reason for the (Sewol) accident," believes Yutaka Watanabe, a marine science and technology professor at Tokyo University who has studied maritime accidents, including a similar ferry disaster in Japan in 2007. "They bought a used vessel from Japan and added lots of cabins, and these cabins were built on the top part of the ship. It shifted the center of gravity upward."
In the wake of the Sewol sinking, Mokpo prosecutors have raided the Chonghaejin Marine Co. and the Korean Register of Shipping. Prosecutors tell CNN while they will not have a conclusion on what caused the accident for months, they are focusing on the retrofit of the Sewol and the shifting and overloading of cargo. 
The prosecutor's office also says the Mokpo Joint Investigation Force found serious safety failures on a sister ship, the Ohamana, also owned by the Chonghaejin Marine Co. Investigators found of the life rafts on board the Ohamana, 40 did not work. The emergency slides also did not work.
The Ohamana did not have any equipment to tie down cars being ferried on board. Shipping containers being transported did have equipment to tie them down, but it did not work very well. Korea's Ministry of Ocean and Fisheries says the Ohamana ceased operations after the Sewol accident. 
The sense of failure to protect the passengers extends to the South Korean Coast Guard and its rescue of the passengers who did make it to the upper decks of the Sewol. Television images showed the coast guard pulling crew members to safety, while the ferry bobbed on its side.
As Koreans look inward on this disaster, the sinking of the ferry is being viewed as an outrageous system failure, from the company that sought to increase passenger loads to the very government charged with protecting the passengers. 
"It makes us wonder if we have to take charge of our own safety," says Cynthia Yoo, assistant professor at Kyung Hee University. "We can't take it for granted that there are proper government safeguards or proper inspections of safety requirements in place to protect us. I think the Sewol is a classic case of corruption or collusion between government agencies, associations and corporations. And it's something that as a nation we must try to fix."
The funerals are well underway, the school pictures of teenagers and teachers being broadcast on television and the Web part of the nation's mourning process.
But there is another call beyond the cries of grief, an inward alarm to repair the flaws and prevent another disaster with such an immense loss. 
South Korea's prime minister announced his resignation Sunday morning, taking responsibility for the slow initial reaction to a ferry's sinking that has left nearly 200 dead and scores more still missing.
Prime Minister Chung Hong-won explained his decision on national television. He apologized "on behalf of the government for the many problems that arose during the first response and the subsequent rescue operation," in addition to "problems that existed before the accident." 
"During the search process, the government took inadequate measures and disappointed the public," Chung said. "I should take responsibility for everything as the prime minister, but the government can assume no more. So I will resign as prime minister."
"This is not the time for blaming each other but for finishing the rescue operation and dealing with the accident," he said. "In order to get over these difficult times, I ask the citizens for help."
Chung becomes the highest-profile public figure to fall after the April 16 capsizing of the Sewol ferry that carried more than 300 South Korean high school students. Many in the country have lambasted the government's response to the disaster. Searchers continue to still look for passengers and crew, and so far have retrieved 188 bodies. Another 114 people are still missing. 
He and the girl's mother and sister are outraged at the government about what they say is a disorganized rescue operation. 
The prime minister's role is to coordinate other ministries within government, say experts in South Korean politics. The president appoints the prime minister, and Park will choose the next prime minister. 
Though the legislature can question that person before he or she takes the job, ultimately the president alone has the power to choose who gets the job, said Nicholas N. Eberstadt with the American Enterprise Institute, who has written extensively about North and South Korea.
The capsizing of the ferry is the biggest disaster in recent South Korean history, and it's a huge story there, occupying hours and hours of news coverage, said David Straub, the associate director of the Korean Studies Program at the Walter H. Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford University.
"I'm sure she and the people around her are concerned about (how the ferry disaster has unfolded)," Straub said. 
South Korea's joint task force in charge of the search and rescue mission told CNN on Sunday that a closed-door meeting between rescuers and families was held to discuss possible new search tactics. 
Rescuers explained that divers are having difficulty trying to reach the Sewol ferry floors close to the seabed, so officials are considering two options. They might use a special metal tool to cut through steel and other materials, or use small explosives to break down the wall. But the second option brings risk that some of the bodies could be damaged. 
The talk comes 11 days after the ferry capsized. The search Sunday was suspended due to bad weather that made diving through the murky waters especially dangerous, but divers made an exception and went down to recover a single body.
A day earlier, divers found the bodies of 48 girls -- wearing their life jackets -- pressed into a room too small for so many people. 
Divers believe that they will face the same scene again. There may be a second, similar room, where 50 more girls are believed to have been trapped when the ferry rolled over.
South Korean coast guard diver Kim Dong-soo said he had tears in his eyes when he heard about the accident.
"Even now, I'm searching as if I'm looking for my own children -- and other coast guards feel the same way," he told CNN. "I have two medical patches on me, have difficulty breathing and my head hurts. But it hurts the most in my heart, knowing those children are still in the cold water."
In the cramped spaces, divers have been battling a forest of drifting objects and doors forced shut by tremendous water pressure. Currents tug at the breathing tubes that keep them alive as they look for the dead.
There may be fewer bodies to retrieve, but divers have already searched the easily accessible places, said South Korean navy Capt. Kim Jin-hwang, commander of the rescue operation.
Fisherman Kim Hyun-ho finds no peace when he lies down at night. The hundreds of dead or missing passengers from the Sewol ferry disaster haunt his sleep. 
Their screams ring in his head. He has vivid memories of his rush to save them in his modest fishing boat off South Korea's coast 11 days ago. 
Kim thinks he may have pulled 25 people from the frigid waters of the Yellow Sea, he said Saturday. But the man from a nearby tiny island of just 100 people feels no pride, only torment. 
"It was hell. Agonizing. There were a lot of people and not enough boats, people in the water yelling for help. The ferry was sinking fast," he said.
He watched people trapped inside go under with the vessel yards in front of him. Then he heard on television how many people were sealed up in the ship.
The father of two grown children is heartbroken for the hundreds of parents who have lost theirs, those he could not save.
As the effort inside the ship continues, South Korean authorities are pressing a criminal investigation into the sinking. 
It's resulted in the arrests of the ship's captain and 14 other members. Prosecutors in Mokpo, South Korea, who are leading the ferry investigation, tell CNN that all the 15 crew members in charge of sailing and the engine room have been indicted and are being held in the Mokpo prison. 
Yang Joong-Jin, the senior prosecutor for the investigation task force, said they all face charges of "causing death by abandoning (ship), and violation of the country's marine law, the Rescue and Aid at Sea and in the River Act."
Investigators also searched the company that owned the ferry and the home of the man whose family controls it, and conducted a wide-ranging probe into the country's marine industry.
Leading theories include changes made to increase the ferry's passenger capacity, and shifting cargo.
On Friday, investigators checked out the Sewol's sister ship, the Ohamana, and said they found 40 of its life rafts weren't working, emergency slides to help evacuate passengers were inoperable, and equipment to tie down cars and cargo either was nonexistent or didn't work very well.
Investigators are looking into whether those modifications could have contributed to the Sewol's fate.
Kim Yong-rok, an opposition lawmaker who represents Jindo, an island near where the ship sank, told CNN that modifications to add 117 more passenger cabins to the ship raised the ferry's center of gravity.
On Friday, the South Korean Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries announced it would ask lawmakers to consider legislation prohibiting modifications to ships to increase passenger capacity.
When they arrived on the scene, Captain Moon Ye-shik expected to see hundreds of passengers in the water.  But all he saw were containers. 
"The ship was listing (badly), 30 to 40 degrees,"  he recalls. "It was in such a bad condition, anyone would assume evacuation was well underway." 
The Doola Ace was the first vessel to reach the Sewol, the ill-fated South Korean ferry that first started to sink in the early hours of April 16. Upon arriving at the scene just minutes after receiving a distress call, it didn't take Moon and his crew long to react. 
Around 9:15 am, twenty minutes after the first SOS, Moon and his men were 200 meters from the Sewol, on deck ready to deploy life rafts and life rings.
But despite the alarming angle that the ferry had already attained, there were few signs that a full-fledged evacuation was underway.
What they didn't know was the passengers, including the 325 students from Danwon High School on a field trip, had been told by the ferry's crew to stay put. While the ferry continued its inexorable descent into the cold waters of the Yellow Sea, those on board trusted in the orders of their crew.
"Please do not move from your location," the ferry's loudspeakers, which swiftly began taking on water after running into trouble, barked at those on board. "Absolutely do not move."
Moon spoke directly to the Sewol on the radio, telling an unidentified crew member that his men were ready to assist in an immediate rescue, and urged the contact to tell the passengers to escape.
Steeped in regret for what he clearly sees as a needless waste of life, the captain wonders what would have happened if the other ship's crew had followed protocol.
"Maybe they were waiting for a different rescue boat, but in that situation, you don't wait," says Moon. "They should have made the call for evacuation. So many lives would have been saved." 
Moon says the crew member on the radio sounded like he was panicking and was clearly inexperienced.  "In an emergency, it should be the captain on the radio.  You need to make decisions fast.  Or at least someone with experience to give direction."
Moon's voice hardens when he talks about the Sewol captain escaping. Discussing the actions of the man who was arrested for his part in the chaotic scenes that followed the delayed evacuation order, he becomes visibly angry.
The Sewol's captain, Lee Joon-seok, was been charged with abandoning his boat, negligence, causing bodily injury, not seeking rescue from other ships, and violating "seamen's law," state media reported, citing prosecutors and police.
"It is an issue of ethics," Moon says. "It is a given that there are laws and regulations, but it's common sense that (the crew) should help people escape."
The captain shakes his head, and says that he believes the Sewol captain has sullied the name of all Korean captains. He says this is the last time he will speak of this tragedy, hoping if he doesn't talk about it his nightmares about not being able to save the children will ease.
Yoo Byung-un -- businessman, artist, ex-con and religious figure -- does not appear to have a direct financial stake in the Cheonghaejin Marine Co, which runs the ill-fated South Korean ferry Sewol. 
But South Korean media have reported that some believe he controls the company through two of his sons, who own stakes in the firm through subsidiaries.
Yoo's allies strongly deny his involvement. A release issued Friday by a public relations agency representing Yoo insists that he doesn't have anything to do with any company tied to the ferry disaster.
Michael Ham, managing director of Ahae Press, said he knows Yoo "has been spending every single day of the past four to five years focusing on his photography work," not directing any firm tied to the sunken ferry.
"I am dismayed at the media reports linking him to the Sewol incident and suggesting that he is directly responsible for this tragedy," Ham said. "These claims cannot be further from the truth."
Authorities searched Yoo's home this week, plus offices of the company that owns the ferry, prosecutors told CNN. The Ahae Press release notes Yoo's sons are among dozens subject to travel bans in light of the ferry incident, calling this "blanket approach ... standard for investigations by Korean regulators."
Investigators have also searched 20 of the ferry owner's affiliates and a religious organization linked to Yoo, according to the semiofficial Yonhap News Agency. 
The religious group and a private organization that conducts ship safety investigations are also facing probes in the disaster, Yonhap reported.
Prosecutors are looking for evidence of wrongdoing that might have contributed to the Sewol disaster.
Little is officially known about Yoo, who earned his nickname as "the millionaire with no face" by making few public appearances.
He was convicted on fraud charges in the 1990s and spent four years in prison for tax evasion. He also headed a now-defunct ferry company that operated on the Han River. 
Yoo is now believed to be involved with the Evangelical Baptist Church, a Korean religious group founded by his father-in-law. It now has 20,000 members, according to Yonhap. 
More recently, he assumed a new identity of sorts as a photographer and artist who goes by the name "AHAE." The news release out Friday indicates his work has gone on display in the Louvre and the Palace of Versailles.
A biography on Ahae.com says he has an interest in organic farming and also describes him as an entrepreneur who once designed ships that traveled the Han River.
True to Yoo's nickname, Ahae doesn't show his face on the website. He only appears from behind, photographing nature scenes in his trademark style -- out an open window of his South Korean studio.
According the website bio, Ahae was born in 1941 in Japan, where his family was during Japanese colonial rule of Korea. That would make him 72 or 73.
The biography describes Ahae as "an inventor, entrepreneur, philanthropist, environmental activist, martial artist, painter, sculptor, poet, and photographer."
"Ahae has been a conservationist all his life and has done everything within his power to ensure that his business activities do not conflict with his endeavors to maintain the purity of the natural world," the biography reads. "His focus on organic products is a natural extension of his concern for the environment, and the individual in particular."
